We won't bring about peace in the world merely by praying for it; we have to take steps to tackle the violence and corruption that disrupt peace. We can't expect change if we don't take action.
The first drawback of anger is that it destroys our inner peace; the second is that it distorts our view of reality. If we think about this and come to understand that anger is really unhelpful, that it is only destructive, we can begin to distance ourselves from anger.
The creation of a more peaceful and happier society has to begin from the level of the individual, and from there it can expand to one's family, to one's neighborhood, to one's community and so on.
In the present circumstances, no one can afford to assume that someone else will solve their problems. Each one of us has a responsibility to help guide our global family in the right direction. Good wishes are not sufficient; we must become actively engaged.
A sense of contentment is crucial to being happy. Physical health, material wealth and friends contribute to this, but contentment governs our relations with them all.
In our modern society everything seems geared to material development, even our systems of education. As a result we no longer pay sufficient attention to our inner values, which leads to mental unrest. In order to address this imbalance we need to pay more attention to our minds
If we were really to see one another as brothers and sisters, there would be no basis for division, cheating and exploitation among us. Therefore it's important to promote the idea of the oneness of humanity, that in being human we are all the same.
The first of my personal commitments is to work to increase human happiness by encouraging the cultivation of inner values and a sense of concern for others' well being. These are the key factors whether one is a religious person or not.
Since we desire the true happiness that is brought about by a calm mind, and such peace of mind arises only from having a compassionate attitude, we need to make a concerted effort to develop compassion.
As a human being I'm aware that we are all physically, mentally and emotionally the same and we all want to live a happy life. Scientists say our basic nature is compassionate. It's clear that love and affection bring people together.
Irrespective of whether we have faith in religion or not, it's good to be more compassionate. It makes us happier as individuals with a positive influence on our families and the neighborhood where we live.
I am one of the 7 billion human beings alive today. We each have a responsibility to think about humanity and the good of the world because it affects our own future. We weren't born on this planet at this time to create problems but to bring about some benefit.
We can achieve peace of mind if we tackle our destructive emotions, so the goal of making the 21st century an era of peace and compassion is feasible. It will involve finding solutions to problems in dialogue, not the use of force.
We may say prayers when we are trying to solve the problems we face, but it is up to us to put an end to violence and bring about peace. Creating peace is our responsibility. To pray for peace while still engaging in the causes that give rise to violence is contradictory.
Human beings are social animals and it is love that brings us together, while anger drives us apart. To live more peacefully and joyfully in our day to day lives, we need a warm heart.
Making others happy is not a question of sacrificing our own happiness. Trying to make others happy, even when we do not always succeed, is a source of great satisfaction. Anger and hatred are signs of weakness, while compassion is a sure sign of strength.
Many of the problems we face today are our own creation. Creating a more peaceful world requires a peaceful mind and a peaceful heart. As human brothers and sisters we must live together in tolerance and affection.
As human beings we need to assess whether anger has any value - it destroys our peace of mind. Compassion, on the other hand, brings optimism and hope.
The kind of behavior that really is spiritual practice consists of refraining from falsehood and abiding by the truth, neither humiliating nor mocking others, being humble, and having a good heart and helping others.
When our intentions toward others are good, we find that any feelings of anxiety or insecurity we may have are greatly reduced. We experience a liberation from our habitual preoccupation with self and paradoxically, this gives rise to strong feelings of confidence.
Inner transformation is not a matter of faith or prayer. It involves reason and the use of human intelligence. A calm and healthy mind has a very positive effect on our physical health and well-being.
Ethics are not a collection of commandments and prohibitions to abide by, but a natural inner offering that can bring happiness and satisfaction to ourselves and others.
Virtually all of us have benefited from our mother's affection at the start of our lives. When someone is on their deathbed, if he or she is surrounded by loved ones they can pass away peacefully. From birth to death we all need affection.
While many people consider sensory experience as the main source of happiness, really it is peace of mind. What destroys peace of mind is anger, hatred, anxiety and fear. Kindness counters this, and through appropriate education we can learn to tackle such emotions.
Cultivating a close, warm-hearted feeling for others automatically puts the mind at ease. It helps remove whatever fears or insecurities we may have and gives us the strength to cope with any obstacles we encounter. It is the ultimate source of success in life.
I am one of the 7 billion human beings alive today. We each have a responsibility to think about humanity and the good of the world because it affects our own future. We weren't born on this planet at this time to create problems but to bring about some benefit.
If you develop a pure and sincere motivation, if you are motivated by a wish to help on the basis of kindness, compassion, and respect, then you can carry on any kind of work, in any field, and function more effectively.
Prayer by itself is not sufficient to bring about peace of mind. What is much more effective is coming to understand the workings of the mind and learning how to tackle the mental afflictions that disturb it.
I always consider that the shape of the future is in our hands. The past is past and can't be changed, but the future has not yet arrived. Young people have the opportunity and responsibility to shape it by creating a better world.
We may say prayers when we are trying to solve the problems we face, but it is up to us to put an end to violence and bring about peace. Creating peace is our responsibility. To pray for peace while still engaging in the causes that give rise to violence is contradictory.
In today's interconnected and globalized world, it's now commonplace for people of different world views, faiths and races to live side by side. It's a matter of great urgency, therefore, that we find ways to cooperate with one another in a spirit of mutual acceptance and respect
The world belongs to its 7 billion inhabitants. In the past, communities could flourish in isolation, but now we can't. This World Environment Day let's remember that we depend on each other and that to meet the challenge of climate change, we have to work together.
Some people consider the practice of love and compassion is only related to religious practice and if they are not interested in religion they neglect these inner values. But love and compassion are qualities that human beings require just to live together.
Because of our intelligence we human beings are uniquely capable not only of creating problems, but of doing so on a large scale. Therefore, it is important that we use our intelligence in constructive ways. That's what warm-heartedness and concern for others lead us to do.
Everyone wants to lead a peaceful, happy life, but happiness and success aren't measured by how much money you have, but by whether you have inner peace in your heart.
I'm Tibetan, I'm Buddhist and I'm the Dalai Lama, but if I emphasize these differences it sets me apart and raises barriers with other people. What we need to do is to pay more attention to the ways in which we are the same as other people.
People inflict pain on others in their selfish pursuit of happiness and satisfaction. Yet true happiness comes from a sense of brotherhood and sisterhood. We need to cultivate a sense of universal responsibility for one another and the planet we share.
Compassion is of little value if it just remains an idea. It must motivate how we respond to others and be reflected in all our thoughts and actions.
We are, you might say, "brainwashed" into thinking that money is the source of happiness while what we really need to know is that inner peace is something that comes from within.
I often ask myself what is the purpose of our lives and I conclude that life's purpose is to be happy. We have no guarantee what will happen in the future, but we live in hope. That's what keeps us going.
Scientists warn that constant fear and anger are bad for our health, while being compassionate and warm-hearted contributes to our physical and mental well-being. Therefore, just as we observe physical hygiene to stay well, we need to cultivate a kind of emotional hygiene too.
There is a link between our physical and verbal actions and emotions. If, instead of anger, hatred and suspicion, we are moved by loving-kindness, we will naturally have greater respect for others and our actions will be non-violent.
There are always problems to face, but it makes a difference if our minds are calm. On the surface we may get upset, but it makes a difference if we are able to stay calm in the depths of our minds.
Humanity's thirst for natural resources can only be sustained if we adapt our patterns of consumption. Competition for necessities like water, food and land will inevitably intensify. To meet the challenge of climate change and environmental depletion we must all cooperate.
Not only is it the case that happy people are more willing to help others, but as I generally point out, helping others is the best way to help yourself, the best way to promote your own happiness. It is you, yourself, who will receive the benefit.
Compassion reduces our fear, boosts our confidence, and opens us to inner strength. By reducing distrust, it opens us to others and brings us a sense of connections with them and a sense of purpose and meaning in life.
I feel that it's crucial to have a clear recognition of the value of your objective. That's the important thing. Recognizing that your objective is worthy, because it involves others' welfare or the general well-being of the community, gives you the determination to pursue it.
In the modern world, where the pursuit of money is considered more important than the cultivation of inner values a fresh approach is required to incorporate secular ethics or universal values into the system of education.
Our real enemies and the enemies of humanity are negative emotions like anger and hatred. Indeed, people who are dominated by powerful negative emotions should be objects of our compassion.
Change in the world comes from individuals, from the inner peace in individual hearts. Just as ripples spread out when a single pebble is dropped into water, the actions of individuals can have far-reaching effects.
In our day to day life warm-heartedness is the key factor for happiness.
World peace can only be based on inner peace. If we ask what destroys our inner peace, it's not weapons and external threats, but our own inner flaws like anger. This is one of the reasons why love and compassion are important, because they strengthen us. This is a source of hope
The many factors which divide us are actually much more superficial than those we share. Despite all of the things that differentiate us - race, language, religion, gender, wealth and so on - we are all equal concerning our fundamental humanity.
When each of us learns to appreciate the critical importance of ethics and makes inner values like compassion and patience an integral part of our basic outlook on life, the effects will be far-reaching.
In today's materialistic world there is a risk of people becoming slaves to money, as though they were simply cogs in a huge money-making machine. This does nothing for human dignity, freedom, and genuine well-being. Wealth should serve humanity, and not the other way around.
Peace has a great deal to do with warm-heartedness and respect for the lives of others, avoiding doing them harm and regarding their lives as being as precious as our own. If, on that basis, we can also be of help to others, so much the better.
Insofar as the destructive effects of anger and hateful thoughts are concerned, one cannot get protection from wealth nor education. The only factor that can give protection from the destructive effects of anger and hatred is the practice of tolerance and patience.
Because of the great differences in our ways of thinking, it is inevitable that we have different religions and faiths. Each has its own beauty. And it is much better that we live together on the basis of mutual respect and mutual admiration.
Practicing compassion, caring for others and sharing their problems, lays the foundation for a meaningful life, not only at the level of the individual, family or community, but also for humanity as a whole.
The very purpose of spirituality is self-discipline. Rather than criticizing others, we should evaluate and criticize ourselves. Ask yourself, what am I doing about my anger, my attachment, my pride, my jealousy? These are the things we should check in our day to day lives.
Genuine friends, are attracted by a warm heart, not money, not power. A genuine friend considers you as just another human being, as a brother or sister, and shows affection on that level, regardless of whether you are rich or poor, or in a high position; that is a genuine friend
Compassion suits our physical condition, whereas anger, fear and distrust are harmful to our well-being. Therefore, just as we learn the importance of physical hygiene to physical health, to ensure healthy minds, we need to learn some kind of emotional hygiene.
Although I am a Buddhist monk, I am skeptical that prayers alone will achieve world peace. We need instead to be enthusiastic and self-confident in taking action.
I believe the ultimate source of blessings is within us. A good motivation and honesty bring self-confidence, which attracts the trust and respect of others. Therefore the real source of blessings is in our own mind.
The basic foundation of humanity is compassion and love. This is why, if even a few individuals simply try to create mental peace and happiness within themselves and act responsibly and kind-heartedly towards others, they will have a positive influence in their community.
Many people think that patience is a sign of weakness. I think this is a mistake. It is anger that is a sign of weakness, whereas patience is a sign of strength.
Developing inner values is much like physical exercise. The more we train our abilities, the stronger they become. The difference is that, unlike the body, when it comes to training the mind, there is no limit to how far we can go.
What's past is past, nothing can change that. But the future can be different if we choose to make it so. We have to cultivate a vision of a happier, more peaceful future and make the effort now to bring it about. This is no time for complacency, hope lies in the action we take.
Destructive thoughts and emotions undermine the very causes of peace and happiness. If you think clearly about it, it makes no sense to think you're seeking happiness, if you do nothing to restrain angry, spiteful, and malicious thoughts and emotions.
Modern education pays little attention to inner values and yet our basic human nature is compassionate. We need to incorporate compassion and warm-heartedness into the modern education system to make it more holistic.
I really feel that some people neglect and overlook compassion because they associate it with religion. Of course, everyone is free to choose whether they pay religion any regard, but to neglect compassion is a mistake because it is the source of our own well-being.
Whether science or religion is constructive or destructive depends on our motivation and whether we are guided by a real concern for the well-being of others and an appreciation of the oneness of humanity.
I am convinced we can become happier individuals, happier communities and a happier humanity by cultivating a warm heart, allowing our better selves to prevail.
Karma means action and action motivated by compassion is good. To complain that what happens to you is just the result of your karma is lazy. Instead, confidently recalling the advice that, "You are your own master," you can change what happens by taking action.
Within each of us exists the potential to contribute positively to society. Although one individual among so many on this planet may seem too insignificant, it is our personal efforts that will determine the direction our society is heading.
We need to strengthen such inner values as contentment, patience and tolerance, as well as compassion for others. Keeping in mind that it is expressions of affection rather than money and power that attract real friends, compassion is the key to ensuring our own well-being.
I consider non-violence to be compassion in action. It doesn't mean weakness, cowering in fear, or simply doing nothing. It is to act without violence, motivated by compassion, recognizing the rights of others.
Meditation is about keeping the mind clear; thinking deeply about reality. It's about thinking about our emotions, asking ourselves 'Why do I feel angry?' and coming to understand the advantages and sound basis of positive emotions like warm-heartedness.
Peace in the world depends on peace within. If we have that we can approach problems in a spirit of compassion, dialogue and respect for the rights of others, always a better solution than resorting to a use of weapons and force. External disarmament depends on inner disarmament.
Peace is not brought about through conflict, but through compassion, creating peace of mind within ourselves. We all need compassion and women can take a lead role in encouraging others to let it flower within them. My own first teacher of kindness and compassion was my mother.
Some people mistakenly conclude that cultivating compassion is all about others' benefit, whereas the first benefit is to us. Compassion brings us peace of mind. It attracts friends. Friends are based on trust and trust develops when we show concern for others.
What is important is not so much how long you live as whether you live a meaningful life. This doesn't mean accumulating money and fame, but being of service to your fellow human beings. It means helping others if you can, but even if you can't do that, at least not harming them.
We can change our minds. We don't have to give in to anger and hatred. Since compassion and anger cannot co-exist, the more we cultivate compassion the more our anger will be reduced.
I don't like formality. There's no formality when we're born and none when we die. In between we should treat each other as brothers and sisters because we all want to live a happy life. This is our common purpose and our right.
Anger and aggression sometimes seem to be protective because they bring energy to bear on a particular situation, but that energy is blind. It takes a calm mind to be able to consider things from different angles and points of view.
The use of force may control people physically, but it won't change their hearts and minds. You can only do that on the basis of trust and friendship.
Change in the world always begins with an individual who shares what he or she has learned and passes it on to others.
The most crucial use of knowledge and education is to understand the importance of developing a good heart.
We all want to live a happy life, which is our right, and the key to doing so is developing compassion for others.
We need to improve the current education system by introducing instructions on ways to cultivate positive emotions like warm-heartedness.
Compassion brings inner peace and whatever else is going on, that peace of mind allows us to see the whole picture more clearly.
Compassion is the essence of a spiritual life, to be successful in practicing love and compassion, patience and tolerance are indispensable.
I'm convinced that today's young people can achieve a more peaceful world if they cultivate warm-heartedness and inner peace.
The more compassionate our mind, the more we'll be able to lead our lives transparently, honestly, truthfully, with nothing to hide.
People go to great lengths to look physically attractive, but inner beauty is a more important and stronger basis for lasting relationships.
As social animals we need friends and what attracts them is trust. And trust grows when we show real concern for others' well-being.
Peace doesn't come from prayer alone, it requires us to take action. Our goal should be a demilitarized world. #PeaceDayChallenge
Whatever our religious faith, showing others loving kindness is the best way to bring about inner peace.
What we need today are universal values based not on faith but on scientific findings, common experience and common sense.
I'm just one human being, but I believe each one of us has a responsibility to contribute to a happier humanity.
Religious people pray for peace, but prayer alone is not enough, what will bring peace in the world is people cultivating peace of mind.
As a human brother I'm committed to letting people know that we all possess the seeds of love and compassion.
Using harsh words reflects narrow-mindedness, to be happy and joyful we need friends. Friendship is based on trust and treating others kindly
Just as we protect our health by observing physical hygiene, by tackling our destructive emotions with skill we'll achieve emotional hygiene
You may control people physically by force, but you won't change their hearts and minds, that requires trust and friendship.
By learning to be more warm-hearted we can create a more compassionate world.
When I heard scientists say they had evidence that basic human nature is compassionate, I thought, 'There's real hope.'
Inner beauty, warm-heartedness and compassion, is what brings about peace of mind.
Fear and suspicion won't help us live together. We have to cultivate warm-heartedness.
If we were really to see one another as brothers and sisters, there would be no basis for division, cheating and exploitation among us.
We all want to live a happy life, so we have to learn to live together in trust and mutual respect.
If you have a warm heart and you care for others you'll be happy and the community in which you live will be happier too.
Education today needs not only to develop our intelligence, but also to support basic human values of warm-heartedness and compassion.
There is no fortitude like patience, just as there is no destructive emotion worse than hatred. Therefore, practice patience and tolerance.
Since loving kindness is the basis of a happy life, It's my number one commitment to promote awareness of the importance of warm-heartedness
We experience happiness on a sensory level that is relatively short-lived. But lasting happiness is related to our state of mind.
Compassion brings us peace of mind. It brings a smile to our face and genuine smiles bring us closer together.
On a mental level kindness and compassion give rise to lasting joy. They reduce fear.
A more peaceful world and a more peaceful century require that we rely not on weapons but on developing a widespread inner peace.
We are all social animals and compassion, care and concern for others bring us together.
Having a calm and compassionate mind enables us to use our natural intelligence more effectively.
Protecting our environment is not a luxury we can choose to enjoy, but a simple matter of survival.
Peace in the world depends on our relating to each other with compassion.
Although bringing about inner change is difficult, it is absolutely worthwhile to try. What is important is to try our best.
Motivation is very important. We can show love, respect for others, and honesty in whatever we do to help humanity.
If human society loses the value of justice, compassion, and honesty, the next generation will face greater difficulties and more suffering.
The happiness of childhood, the calming of a child's fears and the healthy development of its self-confidence depend directly upon love.
Money and power attract friends. But it's not you they're friends with , just your money and power. Only affection brings genuine friends.
If in day to day life you lead a good life, honestly, with love, compassion, and less selfishness, then automatically you will find peace.
The future can be different if we choose to make it so. There is no time for complacency, hope lies in what action we take.
Anger may seem to be a source of energy, but it's blind. It causes us to lose our restraint. It may stir courage, but that too is blind.
It is in the nature of the mind that the more we cultivate and familiarize ourselves with positive emotions, the more powerful they become.
This Earth Day we need a greater sense of global responsibility based on our belonging to one human family.
While material development contributes to physical comfort, mental comfort depends on compassion, which expresses itself as nonviolence.
It is not enough simply to wish that love and compassion grow within us. We need a sustained effort to cultivate such positive qualities.
The aim of spiritual practice is to transform and perfect our motivation and mental disposition, so we can become better human beings.
Positive emotions like compassion and loving kindness engender in us a deep sense of peace and serenity, and benefits others as well.
We can make this a more peaceful century if we cherish non-violence and concern for others' well-being.
Some scientists have found evidence to show that basic human nature is compassionate. This is a really hopeful sign.
All religions have the potential to create better human beings, but no one religion can claim supremacy over the other.
To really be of help to others we need to be guided by compassion.
Caring for others is the best way to fulfil our own interests. We are social animals; we need to be warm-hearted and to take care of others.
Love and compassion are important, because they strengthen us. This is a source of hope
We have to cultivate a vision of a happier, more peaceful future and make the effort now to bring it about.
The purpose of education is to build a happier society, we need a more holistic approach that promotes the practice of love and compassion.
It's not what work we choose to do, the crucial point is doing it with a positive and altruistic motivation.
Be a kind and compassionate person. This is the inner beauty that is a key factor to making a better world.
Inner peace helps sustain good health, gives rise to happy individuals, happy families, happy communities and ultimately a happy humanity.
Be honest, truthful and warm-hearted. Make compassion the basis of your determination.
If our goal is a happier, more peaceful world in the future, only education will bring change.
The ultimate source of happiness for self and others is compassion, concern for others and being of service to them.
We know that everyone who is born has to die, but the important thing is that while we are alive we should make our lives meaningful.
If there can be a greater sense of oneness in the world, then violence and killing will end.
When we talk about happiness, we must think in terms of peace of mind, which is a real source of joy.
When you have a more compassionate mind and cultivate warmheartedness, the whole atmosphere around you becomes more positive and friendlier.
On this International Day of Peace, we must remember that peace cannot come from prayer alone. It requires action. #PeaceDayChallenge
The quality of every human activity ultimately depends on our motivation.
Change starts with us as individuals. If one individual becomes more compassionate it will influence others and so we will change the world.
Genuine compassion, unbiased and not mixed with attachment, is a source of genuine human happiness.
Meaningful dialogue requires us to respect others' rights and interests, compromise is the only way to resolve disputes.
Friendship depends on trust, not money, not power, not education. Only if there's trust will there be friendship.
Different religious traditions can live together on the basis of mutual admiration, mutual respect, and learning from each other.
We are all human beings possessing a seed of compassion. We have to use our intelligence to cultivate the inner values associated with it.
Whether we believe in religion or not, affection and compassion are key factors for our peace of mind.
We think that if we have health and wealth they're enough to be happy, but actually happiness depends on the state of our minds.
Problems created by human beings have to be solved by human beings. Basic human nature is compassionate and this is our source of hope.
If you show concern for others and respect for their rights you will establish trust; and trust is the basis of friendship.
We may sometimes feel that we can't do much as individuals, but humanity is made up of individuals; we can make a difference.
We are now so interdependent that it is in our own interest to take the whole of humanity into account.
We need to pay more attention to the inner values that are the key to our happiness.
Genuine peace in the world depends on our having peace in our hearts. If we are full of anger how can we expect to bring about peace.
There are always problems to face, but it makes a difference if our minds are calm.
Friendship depends on trust and trust grows when we live our lives honestly and sincerely, cultivating respect and concern for others.
If we start now and make the effort, we can make the world a more peaceful place. We have to try.
Being concerned about others does not mean you forgo fulfilling your own needs, but that if you do help others there is mutual benefit.
Problems created by human beings have to be solved by human beings. Basic human nature is compassionate and this is our source of hope.
Inner peace depends on warm-heartedness and a concern for others' well being.
Building trust depends on concern for others and defending their rights, not doing them harm.
If we remember the oneness of humanity and think of each other as brothers and sisters we can overcome that potential for violence.
This planet is our only home; we are all responsible for taking care of it. I'm happy to see leaders now taking climate change seriously.
The time has come for us to consider seriously how to change our way of life not through prayer or religious teaching, but through education
Because society is the basis of our own happiness, it makes sense for us to take care of others.
Creating a better world will require will-power, vision and determination. And for that we need a strong sense that humanity is one family.
The distinction between violence and non-violence lies less in the nature of the action and more in the motivation with which it is done.
Physical comfort alone does not bring inner peace. We create inner peace within the mind.
We need friendship, which depends on trust. And that depends on concern for others, defending their rights, and not doing them harm.
Whether technology's effect is good or bad depends on the user. It's important that we shouldn't be slaves to technology; it should help us.
Cultivating warm-heartedness and compassion is something we can all do.
Just as cold is dispelled by heat, its opposite, anger and loving-kindness counter one another.
Open hearts encourage a sense of security and trust that is the basis of genuine friendship, which is to everyone's benefit.
We will only create a more peaceful and harmonious world if we adopt a peaceful approach and engage openly in dialogue.
Love and affection are important if we are to live a happy life.
What is important today is that we consciously cultivate a sense of the oneness of humanity, because we all depend on each other.
Friendship doesn't depend on fame, money or physical strength. It's based on trust and trust depends on love and affection.
If you live your life honestly and truthfully, you'll be open and transparent, which leads to trust. And trust leads to friendship.
We have to make a special effort to think of each other as fellow human beings, as our brothers and sisters.
We have a marvelous brain, but have to use it properly. It's scientific to be skeptical, to research and experiment. An approach I admire.
When you help others, do so out of respect. Don't look down on them. Serve other human beings with a compassionate intent.
Climate change affects everyone, all nations, not just one or two. Consider it a global issue; national interests will automatically be met.
This planet is our home and Tibet its roof.  
When faced with problems, don't lose hope. Keep up your self-confidence and don't be too impatient to achieve quick results.
We need to promote the oneness of all human beings, on the basis of which there are no grounds for killing or exploiting others.
It is possible to use our intelligence and extend our compassion to others, including even our enemies.
Tibet's ecology needs protecting, not just for Tibetans, but for the health and sustainability of the entire world
Fundamentally, all spiritual traditions help us train our minds, overcome our negativities and fulfill our inner potential.
The future is in your hands, but for it to be peaceful and happy requires a sense of compassion and concern for others' well-being.
Many think that happiness is to be found outside ourselves in material things, but actually happiness is something that comes from within.
Changing the world is up to us. If each of us tries, the next generation may see a happier, more peaceful world emerge.
Let's remember that world peace results from individuals like us finding lasting peace within #PeaceDayChallenge
To serve others and not only to secure their welfare, but also to avoid harming them, is the standard of a meaningful life.
As human beings, equipped with marvelous intelligence and the potential for developing a warm heart, each of us can become a force for good
It's unrealistic to think that the future of humanity can be achieved through prayer or good wishes alone; what we need is to take action.
The goal of happier human beings living together, supporting each other, in a more peaceful world, is, I believe, something we can achieve.
Loving is of even greater importance than being loved.
The use of force and violence inevitably entails unanticipated consequences, but rarely yields a solution.
Compassion reduces our fear, boosts our confidence, and opens us to inner strength.
The moment you think of others, your mind widens.
Japan, the one country to have suffered nuclear attack, has taken the lead in opposing nuclear weapons. I strongly urge you to keep it up.
To create a happier humanity we have to pay more attention to our inner values, whether we are religious or not.
The real troublemaker is within us. Our true enemies are our own destructive tendencies.
To cultivate genuine compassion we need to take responsibility for our own care and have concern for everyone's suffering, including our own
If we're motivated by a genuine sense of universal responsibility our relations with the environment and our neighbors will be more balanced
What makes our human life precious is our marvelous brain. We have an ability to cultivate compassion in a way no other beings can do.
The greatest threat we face today is violence.
The gun may seem more decisive in the short term, but in the long term the power of truth is stronger.
When we wake up we can remind ourselves - "I need to be happy, I need to have warm feelings towards others."
We all want to be happy and avoid suffering, and we all have a right to be happy. That's why I say we are all the same.
To create a happier humanity we have to pay more attention to our inner values, whether we are religious or not.
A truthful, compassionate attitude is a sign of strength. It's lying and anger that betray weakness.
Since climate change and the global economy now affect us all, we have to develop a sense of the oneness of humanity.
We all have the potential to develop unbiased love and concern for other human beings.
To reduce destructive emotions we need to strengthen constructive emotions. For example, to counter anger we cultivate love and compassion.
It's important is to show children affection to give them a sense of security and the ability to be affectionate for the rest of their lives
Ask yourselves now and then, "How can I contribute to human beings being happier and more at peace?"
As human beings we are all responsible for each other; we all have the potential to be kind and affectionate.
When our mind is calm, we're better able to find peace of mind and live a joyful life.
Since we are not solely material creatures, it is a mistake to base all our hopes for happiness on external development alone.
Common sense tells us we'll be happy even if we're poor if we're warm-hearted, whereas if we're wealthy but self-centred we'll be miserable
Kindness and compassion give rise to self-confidence, which in turn empowers us to be honest, truthful and transparent.
Giving in to anger, fear and suspicion disturbs our minds and our physical well-being, whereas trust and friendship are the basis of society
Because all religious traditions teach love, tolerance and forgiveness, and share a common goal, we can appreciate and respect them all.
Deep down we must have a real affection for each other, a clear recognition of our shared status as human beings.
Doing to harm to others may bring some temporary satisfaction, but being helpful to them is the only real source of lasting joy.
Our potential for positive and negative emotions is the same, but intelligence is our special quality. Use it well; be successful and happy.
The future is in the hands of those who belong to the 21st century with the opportunity to build a better humanity by training the mind.
Friends are made on the basis of trust and trust only grows if you are kind to people.
It is important to teach young people at school that violence is a fruitless approach to solving problems.
It's clear that the ultimate source of happiness is warm-heartedness.
Anger cannot coexist with inner peace, which is the principal characteristic of happiness.
When our mind is calm, we're better able to find peace of mind and live a joyful life.
If we have respect and concern for other beings, we'll be able to create an atmosphere of happiness, harmony and real brotherhood
One of our best human qualities is intelligence; it enables us to judge what is beneficial and what brings harm.
In our daily lives, mindfulness, a more holistic and compassionate attitude helps us keep our peace of mind; it's good for our health too.
Compassion is not just the business of the religious; it is important to know it's everyone's business, it is a question of human survival.
We need to strike a balance between material and spiritual progress, a balance achieved on the basis of love and compassion.
Only tolerance and patience can protect us from the destructive effects of anger and hatred.
Everyone can practise non-violence, it only calls for determination. If you succeed, it will open the way to a far more peaceful world.
Affection and compassion are indispensable in daily life.
Idealistic as it may sound, altruism should be the driving force in business, not just competition and a desire for wealth.
True compassion isn't just an emotional response, it's a firm commitment founded on reason, which doesn't change if others behave badly.
Determination, courage, self-confidence lead to success, but we should always remain humble, modest and unpretentious.
Showing respect for others' rights and views is not only the source of reconciliation it's also an aspect of compassion.
Tolerance is always important, it helps us overcome difficulties. Without it, small things irritate us and we overreact.
Material development only gives us sensory pleasure, but to be lastingly happy we need to develop our minds. We need calm minds.
Being aware of a single shortcoming within yourself is far more useful than being aware of a thousand in someone else.
The purpose of religion is not building grand temples but cultivating positive human qualities like tolerance, generosity and love.
We can develop patience and change our attitudes through steady practice - the human mind has such potential.
Concern yourselves more with the needs of others, with the needs of all humanity, and you'll have peace of mind.
Compassion suits our physical condition, whereas anger, fear and distrust are harmful to our well-being.
True friendship develops not as a result of money or power but on the basis of genuine human affection.
If we were to think of other people as our human brothers and sisters, there'd be no room for quarrelling or killing each other.
You can't buy inner peace or wisdom with money. You have to create them within yourself.
Without technology humanity has no future, but we have to be careful that we don't become so mechanised that we lose our human feelings.
To meet this century's challenges, human beings need a greater sense of universal responsibility.
Compassion should be unbiased, based on a recognition that others have a right to happiness, just as you do.
Love and kindness are the very basis of society. If we lose these positive emotions, society will face tremendous difficulties.
Human rights apply to every country because all human beings share an inherent yearning for freedom, dignity and equality.
If you develop care and concern for others, you'll develop a kind of inner strength in spite of your own difficulties and problems.
We need to balance material and spiritual progress, acting with love and compassion can help achieve that balance.
I believe that human nature is fundamentally positive and gentle; therefore, a human approach should be non-violent.
If we do nothing to restrain our angry, spiteful, and malicious thoughts and emotions, happiness will elude us.
Even small acts of compassion bring meaning and purpose to our lives.
My number one commitment is to extend awareness that peace of mind depends on our cultivating inner values.
Affection, warm-heartedness, that makes us happy; wealth alone can't do that.
The value of compassion and forgiveness is not confined to matters of religion. These are human values that we shouldn't neglect.
Patience as we wait to take action is a kind of compassionate mind. Impatience on the other hand can be a source of failure.
A calm mind makes us relaxed, improves our health and makes for happier families and communities.
Affection, a sense of community and a sense of concern for others are not some kind of luxury. They're about the survival of humanity.
Cultivating a genuine sense of concern for others' well-being is the basis for the trust that makes happiness and friendship possible.
If you make others happy, you'll be happy. If you make others unhappy, you'll be miserable.
We are social animals and it is in our own interest, if we want to live a happy life, to think of the rest of humanity.
It's not just money we need to lead a happy life; more important is to find inner peace.
Compassion indicates strength, while anger is a sign of weakness and forgiveness is about not giving in to anger or thoughts of revenge.
If we want to improve humanity, we have to start with individuals.
Tackling destructive emotions like anger and hatred entails developing constructive emotions like love and compassion.
Our intelligence needs to be guided by warm-heartedness.
If you're angry and resentful it's like being part of a chain reaction; forgiveness puts a stop to anger, ill-will and a desire for revenge.
It is evident that to help others rather than harming them, treating them with love and compassion leads to lasting trust and friendship.
The idea of one side suffering defeat while the other side triumphs is out of date. Instead we have to develop dialogue.
In order to derive the maximum benefit the wise thing is take care of others.
Developing an attitude more concerned with others reduces fear and fosters friendship.
When we have an altruistic motivation, all our actions become constructive.
We need cooperation based on trust and self-confidence to create an open, compassionate, harmonious society.
There needs to be a systematic approach to introducing inner values, a warm-hearted concern for all human beings, into education.
Compassion is a source of happiness, while self-centerdness can lead ultimately to violence.
Warm-heartedness and concern for others' well-being are a condition for happiness, whether you are religious or not.
Non-violence is when one has the chance to harm another but resists from doing so, this is genuine non-violence.
The quality of our actions, whether they are positive or negative, depends on our motivation. This is why we have to transform our minds.
We need to consider how our actions affect wildlife and the environment, and how they are likely to affect others.
I often tease young people about their concern for how they look; more important is inner beauty - compassion, affection and respect.
Wherever I go I try to hold discussions with members of other religious traditions, because it is important to get to know about them.
The more we are concerned for the well-being of others, the closer we will feel to each other.
If we cherish non-violence and concern for others' well-being it is possible to make this a more peaceful century.
A meaningful life isn't about acquiring money and other facilities; it's about dedicating your life to helping others as much as you can.
As a human being, I believe each one of us should have some concern for others and for the planet.
It is always helpful to remain honest and truthful in the face of difficulty.
In addition to modern education, there is a need to learn how to achieve inner peace.
Pay more attention to compassion and you'll find you're happier. It's that practical and simple.
We need to see that anger is never any use in solving problems, but that patience and compassion are helpful.
If tragedy strikes, don't lose hope. Transform it into an opportunity to make things better.
When you are concerned for the welfare of others, bullying and exploitation cease.
We have to try to solve local problems keeping global interests in mind.
We can teach people how to be happy on the basis of secular ethics, that a compassionate mind is useful, beneficial and secular in nature.
The power of truth never declines. Force and violence may be effective in the short term, but in the long run it's truth that prevails.
Concern for others is not just a matter of religious practice; it's a practical step towards creating a happy society.
Even people opposed to religion need calm minds and compassion to make their work more effective.
We all need basic human values rooted in trust and affection.
Warm-heartedness gives rise to the self-confidence and inner strength that supports a calm mind.
Just as we teach about physical hygiene in the interest of good health, we now need to teach about mental or emotional hygiene too.
It is important to appreciate the contribution compassion and warm-heartedness make to happiness.
Everyone wants to lead a happy life, a meaningful life. In order to fulfil this goal our practice should be realistic.
When you face problems in your lives, don't resort to the use of force, try to employ dialogue to find a solution.
Whether we follow a religious path or not, as human beings we all need affection.
We must design education that provides for both knowledge and a healthy mind, creating a sense of compassion that responds to all humanity.
We have to build a better, more equal world through peace and non-violence.
It would help if there were greater understanding that anger never helps to solve a problem.
Leading your life honestly and truthfully will create trust and friendship.
Now we're so interdependent, we need to build trust and confidence. On a national or personal level self-centredness is a source of trouble.
You can't help someone just by making a wish to do so, you have to take action.
We need a sense of belonging to one humanity, respecting the rights and views of others.
If you dedicate yourself to helping others, you'll be happier.
We can only transform humanity and create a happier more compassionate world through education.
Today, let us wish each other a Happy New Year, but also that we may make it meaningful.
No matter what our motivation may be, if we are not realistic we will not fulfil our goal.
In order to exercise creativity, freedom of thought is essential.
We cannot change the past, but we can reshape the future. Young people have the opportunity to create a happier, better future
All beings want to live in peace and happiness, undisturbed. Therefore the concept of human rights is universal.
Anger and hatred lead to fear; compassion and concern for others allow us to develop self-confidence, which breeds trust and friendship.
It's harmful to employ technology fired by anger and hatred. It can only be beneficial if we're motivated to seek the welfare of all beings.
Sometimes things go wrong; that's normal. But we have a saying in Tibetan, 'Nine times fail, nine times try again'.
Because of the risks involved in indulging in unrestrained desire and greed we need to cultivate contentment and simplicity.
I believe compassion to be one of the few things we can practice that will bring immediate and long-term happiness to our lives.
Not only is your own happiness and welfare related to others, but the more you help them, the happier you will be.
I try to treat whoever I meet as an old friend. This gives me a genuine feeling of happiness.
Since we are increasingly interdependent it's time to develop a sense of global responsibility, to help each other and promote human values.
Great changes start with individuals; the basis of world peace is inner peace in the hearts of individuals, something we can all work for.
If we have a good heart and concern for others, our actions will be positive.
The challenge today is to convince people of the value of truth, honesty, compassion and a concern for others.
Love and compassion are qualities that human beings require just to live together.
We need values based on common sense, experience and scientific findings, what I refer to as secular ethics.
If you want change, create the causes.
Having a compassionate attitude is the ultimate basis for living a happy life.
Prayer can be of great solace to the individual, but changing the world requires us to take action.
If we make a common attempt to improve our education systems, we can educate the coming generations to be more compassionate.
As human beings, we have a common responsibility to build a more peaceful society.
The opponent of peace of mind is not something external, but within us.
Use your human intelligence in the best way you can; transform your emotions in a positive way.
Fear that makes us run from a mad dog is useful and necessary, whereas fear rooted in mistrust is unhelpful and needs to be overcome.
In order to derive the maximum benefit the wise thing is to take care of others.
Forgiveness is how we put a stop to anger, ill-will and a desire for revenge.
If we have peace of mind, we'll always feel happy. Deceiving ourselves that money is the source of happiness, we won't.
I'm optimistic that there is a growing appetite for peace in the world. Many young people are fed up with war and violence.
Warm-heartedness is the key factor that allows me to smile and be happy, even in the company of strangers.
Blessings don't come from outside, but from within. Whatever blessings we receive are the result of our own efforts and positive actions.
Anger destroys our peace of mind and causes trouble. It also hampers our ability to function properly.
Wherever I go I talk to people about the need to be aware of the oneness of humanity.
Compassion is what makes our lives meaningful.
Instead of harboring fear and suspicion we need to think of other people not as 'them' but 'us'.
It is important to let people know that they have the source of contentment and happiness within themselves.
Peace can only be achieved through non-violence. This is something we have to train and educate our children to put into effect.
A person who practices compassion and forgiveness has great inner strength, whereas aggression is usually a sign of weakness.
Among human beings trust comes about, not from expressions of wealth or fame, but from our showing affection.
When you concern yourself with others, you naturally develop a sense of self-confidence. To help others takes courage and inner strength.
Despite the superficial differences between us, we need to have a sense that all 7 billion human beings belong to one human family.
What we do need to do is to find ways to incorporate advice about warm-heartedness into our education system.
When we develop care and concern by thinking of others not as 'them' but 'us', there is no room for bullying, exploitation or deceit.
Genuine peace is based on inner peace, because you cannot build peace on the basis of anger.
We naturally have self-interest but it should be wise rather than foolish self-interest by taking others needs into account as well as ours.
If we make consistent effort, based on proper education, we can change the world.
Everybody wants a happy life and a peaceful mind, but we have to produce peace of mind through our own practice.
Just as ripples spread out when a single pebble is dropped into water, the actions of individuals can have far-reaching effects.
Serving and helping others out of compassion is non-violence in action.
Concern for others' well being reduces fear and suspicion, prompting the openness and transparency that gives rise to trust and friendship.
We live in a world in which we are dependent on others; we cannot expect to fulfil our goals while disregarding others' needs.
When you are warm-hearted, there is no room for anger, jealousy or insecurity.
Past history clearly shows that violence cannot solve problems.
A great Tibetan teacher of mind training once remarked that one of the mind's most marvelous qualities is that it can be transformed.
Genuine happiness comes from focusing on the happiness of others.
Once you have a genuine sense of concern for others, there's no room for cheating, bullying or exploitation.
Peace isn't the mere absence of violence; peace must come from inner peace. And inner peace comes from taking others' interests into account
Warm-heartedness and concern for others are a part of human nature and are at the core of positive human values.
A happy society must be created by people themselves, not through prayer alone, but by taking action.
I like to point out that our nature is basically compassionate because we are social animals. What brings us together is love and affection.
We need to understand that material development by itself it doesn't bring peace of mind. This can only be developed within the mind.
Who is there among us who does not prefer tolerance, respect and forgiveness of our failings to bigotry, disrespect, and resentment?
Through constant training we can enhance our positive attitudes and thoughts and reduce their opposing negative attitudes.
A genuine change must first come from within the individual, only then can he or she attempt to make a significant contribution to humanity.
Today's children are hugely important, our hopes for the future lie in their hands and rest on their shoulders.
I am increasingly convinced that the time has come to find a way of thinking about spirituality and ethics beyond religion altogether.
The many factors which divide us are actually much more superficial than those we share.
Genuine friendship depends on genuine affection and taking a sense of responsibility for each other.
Human values like democracy, freedom of speech and freedom of the individual, these are changes whose momentum cannot be stopped.
The quality of everything we do: our physical actions, our verbal actions, and even our mental actions, depends on our motivation.
Unlike the body, when it comes to training the mind, there is no limit to how far we can go.
Patience guards us against losing our presence of mind so we can remain undisturbed, even when the situation is really difficult.
If you become more concerned for the welfare of others, you will experience a sense of calm, inner strength and self-confidence.
If we are optimistic, take a longer view, and we employ realistic methods, we can contribute to making the world a better place.
Unbiased love is undoubtedly difficult to generate, but if you practice
with determination, day by day your attitude will be transformed.
Compassion is a mental quality that can bring us true lasting inner peace and inner strength.
We often talk about moral values, justice and trust, but the important thing is to put them into effect in our everyday lives.
Wealth may contribute to our happiness, but it's not the most important factor; by itself wealth fails to bring us deep inner satisfaction.
The more adept we are in cultivating altruism, the happier we will be and the better the atmosphere we will create around us.
Compassion is a marvel of human nature, a precious inner resource, and the foundation of our well-being and the harmony of our societies.
We have to put effort into being honest, truthful and compassionate towards others.
The essence of compassion is a desire to alleviate the suffering of others and to promote their well-being.
While revenge weakens society, forgiveness gives it strength.
A calm mind is really helpful in sustaining a healthy body.
To bring about a better world, let us all strive together with vision, with courage, and with optimism.
The creation of a more peaceful and happier society has to begin from the level of the individual.
It is my hope that the twenty-first century will be a century when a more caring, responsible, and compassionate humanity will emerge.
The real source of happiness involves one's state of mind, outlook, and motivation, and one's level of warmheartedness towards others.
Compassion, along with love, is the face of altruism.
We must work together. Humanity needs more genuine cooperation.
We tend to forget that despite the superficial differences between us, people are equal in their basic wish for peace and happiness.
It is necessary to help others in our daily lives, merely praying for them isn't enough.
Compassion is the wish to offer unbiased service to all beings, whether they are friendly or hostile to you.
As compassion grows stronger, so does your commitment to the welfare of all beings, even if you have to act alone.
Affection, honesty, harmony and non-violence are qualities that yield happiness for individuals, families and society at large.
Once your mind is calm and full of love, there is no room for hatred or fear. Others will trust you because of your open heart.