@JussieSmollett - what about MAGA and the tens of millions of people you insulted with your racist and dangerous comments!? #MAGA
THE WALL IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION RIGHT NOW! 
....something that is so obviously the future. I want the United States to win through competition not by blocking out currently more advanced technologies. We must always be the leader in everything we do especially when it comes to the very exciting world of technology!
I want 5G and even 6G technology in the United States as soon as possible. It is far more powerful faster and smarter than the current standard. American companies must step up their efforts or get left behind. There is no reason that we should be lagging behind on.........
I have instructed Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and he fully agrees not to allow Hoda Muthana back into the Country!
We have just built this powerful Wall in New Mexico. Completed on January 30 2019  47 days ahead of schedule! Many miles more now under construction! #FinishTheWall 
California now wants to scale back their already failed fast train project by substantially shortening the distance so that it no longer goes from L.A. to San Francisco. A different deal and record cost overruns. Send the Federal Government back the Billions of Dollars WASTED!
The New York Times reporting is false. They are a true ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!
If thinking that James Comey is not a good FBI Director is tantamount to being an agent of Russia than just list all the people that are agents of Russia - Chuck Schumer Nancy Pelosi Rod Rosenstein who wrote the memo to get rid of Comey the Inspector General.... Trey Gowdy
The Washington Post ignored basic journalistic standards because it wanted to advance its well-known and easily documented biased agenda against President Donald J. Trump. Covington student suing WAPO. Go get them Nick. Fake News!
The Press has never been more dishonest than it is today. Stories are written that have absolutely no basis in fact. The writers dont even call asking for verification. They are totally out of control. Sadly I kept many of them in business. In six years they all go BUST!
Crazy Bernie has just entered the race. I wish him well!
Andrew McCabe gave absolutely no evidence of any threat to substantiate his ABSURD claim. @LouDobbs
I never said anything bad about Andrew McCabes wife other than she (they) should not have taken large amounts of campaign money from a Crooked Hillary source when Clinton was under investigation by the FBI. I never called his wife a loser to him (another McCabe made up lie)!
The Washington Post is a Fact Checker only for the Democrats. For the Republicans and for your all time favorite President it is a Fake Fact Checker!
The failed Fast Train project in California where the cost overruns are becoming world record setting is hundreds of times more expensive than the desperately needed Wall!
As I predicted 16 states led mostly by Open Border Democrats and the Radical Left have filed a lawsuit in of course the 9th Circuit! California the state that has wasted billions of dollars on their out of control Fast Train with no hope of completion seems in charge!
The failed Fast Train project in California were the cost overruns are becoming world record setting is hundreds of times more expensive than the desperately needed Wall!
As I predicted 16 cities led mostly by Open Border Democrats and the Radical Left have filed a lawsuit in of course the 9th Circuit! California the state that has wasted billions of dollars on their out of control Fast Train with no hope of completion seems in charge!
Had the opposition party (no not the Media) won the election the Stock Market would be down at least 10000 points by now. We are heading up up up!
....(The Witch Hunt) in time likely will become recognized as the greatest scandal in American political history marking the first occasion in which the U.S. government bureaucrats sought to overturn an election (presidential)! Victor Davis Hanson And got caught! @FoxNews
Remember this Andrew McCabe didnt go to the bathroom without the approval of Leakin James Comey!
Thank you Andrew - We all miss beautiful Meadow! 
Thank you JT! 
Amazing! 
The biggest abuse of power and corruption scandal in our history and its much worse than we thought. Andrew McCabe (FBI) admitted to plotting a coup (government overthrow) when he was serving in the FBI before he was fired for lying leaking. @seanhannity @FoxNews Treason!
Today more than 50 countries around the world now recognize the rightful government of Venezuela. The Venezuelan people have spoken and the world has heard their voice. They are turning the page on Socialism and Dictatorship; and there will be NO GOING BACK! 
I ask every member of the Maduro regime: End this nightmare of poverty hunger and death. LET YOUR PEOPLE GO. Set your country free! Now is the time for all Venezuelan Patriots to act together as one united people. Nothing could be better for the future of Venezuela!
The people of Venezuela are standing for FREEDOM and DEMOCRACY  and the United States of America is standing right by their side!
We are here to proclaim that a new day is coming in Latin America. In Venezuela and across the Western Hemisphere Socialism is DYING - and liberty prosperity and democracy are being REBORN...
Hope you are enjoying your Presidents Day our Country is making unprecedented progress!
This was an illegal coup attempt on the President of the United States. Dan Bongino on @foxandfriends True!
Great analysis by @foxandfriends!
....There is a lot of explaining to do to the millions of people who had just elected a president who they really like and who has done a great job for them with the Military Vets Economy and so much more. This was the illegal and treasonous insurance policy in full action!
Wow so many lies by now disgraced acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe. He was fired for lying and now his story gets even more deranged. He and Rod Rosenstein who was hired by Jeff Sessions (another beauty) look like they were planning a very illegal act and got caught.....
After two years and interviewing more than two hundred witnesses the Senate Intelligence Committee has NOT discovered any direct evidence of a conspiracy between the Trump Campaign and Russia. Ken Dilanian @NBCNews
William Barr is arriving at a Justice Department that desperately needs an infusion of credibility writes @KimStrassel via @WSJ
The Mueller investigation is totally conflicted illegal and rigged! Should never have been allowed to begin except for the Collusion and many crimes committed by the Democrats. Witch Hunt!
These guys the investigators ought to be in jail. What they have done working with the Obama intelligence agencies is simply unprecedented. This is one of the greatest political hoaxes ever perpetrated on the people of this Country and Mueller is a coverup. Rush Limbaugh
THE RIGGED AND CORRUPT MEDIA IS THE ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!
Nothing funny about tired Saturday Night Live on Fake News NBC! Question is how do the Networks get away with these total Republican hit jobs without retribution? Likewise for many other shows? Very unfair and should be looked into. This is the real Collusion!
52% Approval Rating 93% in Republican Party ( a record )! Pretty amazing considering that 93% (also) of my press is REALLY BAD. The people are SMART!
Democrats in the Senate are still slow walking hundreds of highly qualified people wanting to come into government. Never been such an abuse in our countrys history. Mitch should not let Senate go home until all are approved. We need our Ambassadors and all others NOW!
Important meetings and calls on China Trade Deal and more today with my staff. Big progress being made on soooo many different fronts! Our Country has such fantastic potential for future growth and greatness on an even higher level!
....The U.S. does not want to watch as these ISIS fighters permeate Europe which is where they are expected to go. We do so much and spend so much - Time for others to step up and do the job that they are so capable of doing. We are pulling back after 100% Caliphate victory!
The United States is asking Britain France Germany and other European allies to take back over 800 ISIS fighters that we captured in Syria and put them on trial. The Caliphate is ready to fall. The alternative is not a good one in that we will be forced to release them........
Trade negotiators have just returned from China where the meetings on Trade were very productive. Now at meetings with me at Mar-a-Lago giving the details. In the meantime Billions of Dollars are being paid to the United States by China in the form of Trade Tariffs!
BUILDING THE WALL!
Great job by law enforcement in Aurora Illinois. Heartfelt condolences to all of the victims and their families. America is with you!
Trying to use the 25th Amendment to try and circumvent the Election is a despicable act of unconstitutional power grabbing...which happens in third world countries. You have to obey the law. This is an attack on our system Constitution. Alan Dershowitz. @TuckerCarlson
After The Flight 93 Election The Vote That Saved America - And What We Still Have To Lose by very talented Michael Anton is a terrific read. Check it out!
One year ago today a horrific act of violence took the lives of 14 students and 3 educators in Parkland Florida. On this somber anniversary we honor their memory and recommit to ensuring the safety of all Americans especially our Nations children... 
Reviewing the funding bill with my team at the @WhiteHouse!
funding bill
....Many of the top FBI brass were fired forced to leave or left. McCabes wife received BIG DOLLARS from Clinton people for her campaign - he gave Hillary a pass. McCabe is a disgrace to the FBI and a disgrace to our Country. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
Disgraced FBI Acting Director Andrew McCabe pretends to be a poor little Angel when in fact he was a big part of the Crooked Hillary Scandal the Russia Hoax - a puppet for Leakin James Comey. I.G. report on McCabe was devastating. Part of insurance policy in case I won....
California has been forced to cancel the massive bullet train project after having spent and wasted many billions of dollars. They owe the Federal Government three and a half billion dollars. We want that money back now. Whole project is a green disaster!
Today it was my great honor to address the @MjrCitiesChiefs Association and @MCSheriffs Conference in Washington D.C. We will never forget your service and we will never ever let you down! We love you and we thank God for you each and every day. 
The Gallup Poll just announced that 69% of our great citizens expect their finances to improve next year a 16 year high. Nice!
The Senate Intelligence Committee: THERE IS NO EVIDENCE OF COLLUSION BETWEEN THE TRUMP CAMPAIGN AND RUSSIA!
I want to thank all Republicans for the work you have done in dealing with the Radical Left on Border Security. Not an easy task but the Wall is being built and will be a great achievement and contributor toward life and safety within our Country!
Thank you to @MSNBC! 
....Will be getting almost $23 BILLION for Border Security. Regardless of Wall money it is being built as we speak!
Was just presented the concept and parameters of the Border Security Deal by hard working Senator Richard Shelby. Looking over all aspects knowing that this will be hooked up with lots of money from other sources....
Beautiful evening in El Paso Texas last night. God Bless the USA! 
We are fighting for all Americans from all backgrounds of every age race religion birthplace color creed. Our agenda is NOT a partisan agenda  it is the mainstream common sense agenda of the American People. Thank you El Paso Texas - I love you! 
Coal is an important part of our electricity generation mix and @TVAnews should give serious consideration to all factors before voting to close viable power plants like Paradise #3 in Kentucky!
40 years of corruption. 40 years of repression. 40 years of terror. The regime in Iran has produced only #40YearsofFailure. The long-suffering Iranian people deserve a much brighter future. 
Will be heading to El Paso very soon. Big speech on Border Security and much else tonight. Tremendous crowd! See you later!
The Democrats are so self righteous and ANGRY! Loosen up and have some fun. The Country is doing well!
The Democrats do not want us to detain or send back criminal aliens! This is a brand new demand. Crazy!
No president ever worked harder than me (cleaning up the mess I inherited)!
Fact checkers have become Fake News. @JesseBWatters So True!
The U.S. will soon control 100% of ISIS territory in Syria. @CNN (do you believe this?).
Well it happened again. Amy Klobuchar announced that she is running for President talking proudly of fighting global warming while standing in a virtual blizzard of snow ice and freezing temperatures. Bad timing. By the end of her speech she looked like a Snowman(woman)!
The Border Committee Democrats are behaving all of a sudden irrationally. Not only are they unwilling to give dollars for the obviously needed Wall (they overrode recommendations of Border Patrol experts) but they dont even want to take muderers into custody! Whats going on?
President is on sound legal ground to declare a National Emergency. There have been 58 National Emergencies declared since the law was enacted in 1976 and 31 right now that are currently active so this is hardly unprecedented. Congressman @tommcclintock
....The fact is when I took over as President our Country was a mess. Depleted Military Endless Wars a potential War with North Korea V.A. High Taxes too many Regulations Border Immigration HealthCare problems much more. I had no choice but to work very long hours!
The media was able to get my work schedule something very easy to do but it should have been reported as a positive not negative. When the term Executive Time is used I am generally working not relaxing. In fact I probably work more hours than almost any past President.....
It was a very bad week for the Democrats with the GREAT economic numbers The Virginia disaster and the State of the Union address. Now with the terrible offers being made by them to the Border Committee I actually believe they want a Shutdown. They want a new subject!
I dont think the Dems on the Border Committee are being allowed by their leaders to make a deal. They are offering very little money for the desperately needed Border Wall now out of the blue want a cap on convicted violent felons to be held in detention!
Gallup Poll: Open Borders will potentially attract 42 million Latin Americans. This would be a disaster for the U.S. We need the Wall now!
African Americans are very angry at the double standard on full display in Virginia!
Senator Richard Burr The Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee just announced that after almost two years more than two hundred interviews and thousands of documents they have found NO COLLUSION BETWEEN TRUMP AND RUSSIA! Is anybody really surprised by this?
I think it is very important for the Democrats to press forward with their Green New Deal. It would be great for the so-called Carbon Footprint to permanently eliminate all Planes Cars Cows Oil Gas the Military - even if no other country would do the same. Brilliant!
Today Elizabeth Warren sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas joined the race for President. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate or has she decided that after 32 years this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL Liz!
The Democrats just dont seem to want Border Security. They are fighting Border Agents recommendations. If you believe news reports they are not offering much for the Wall. They look to be making this a campaign issue. The Wall will get built one way or the other!
We have a great economy DESPITE the Obama Administration and all of its job killing Regulations and Roadblocks. If that thinking prevailed in the 2016 Election the U.S. would be in a Depression right now! We were heading down and dont let the Democrats sound bites fool you!
The Democrats in Congress yesterday were vicious and totally showed their cards for everyone to see. When the Republicans had the Majority they never acted with such hatred and scorn! The Dems are trying to win an election in 2020 that they know they cannot legitimately win!
It was great meeting some of our outstanding young military personnel who were wounded in both Syria and Afghanistan. Their wounds are deep but their spirit is sooo high. They will recoverer be back very soon. America loves them. Walter Reed Hospital is AMAZING - Thank you all!
North Korea under the leadership of Kim Jong Un will become a great Economic Powerhouse. He may surprise some but he wont surprise me because I have gotten to know him fully understand how capable he is. North Korea will become a different kind of Rocket - an Economic one!
My representatives have just left North Korea after a very productive meeting and an agreed upon time and date for the second Summit with Kim Jong Un. It will take place in Hanoi Vietnam on February 27 28. I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim advancing the cause of peace!
I was a big fan of Frank Robinson both as a great player and man. He was the first African American manager in baseball and was highly respected at everything he did. He will he missed!
Deepest sympathies to Congresswoman Debbie Dingell and the entire family of John Dingell. Longest serving Congressman in Countrys history which if people understand politics means he was very smart. A great reputation and highly respected man.
Working hard thank you! 
...It is all a GIANT AND ILLEGAL HOAX developed long before the election itself but used as an excuse by the Democrats as to why Crooked Hillary Clinton lost the Election! Someday the Fake News Media will turn honest report that Donald J. Trump was actually a GREAT Candidate!
The mainstream media has refused to cover the fact that the head of the VERY important Senate Intelligence Committee after two years of intensive study and access to Intelligence that only they could get just stated that they have found NO COLLUSION between Trump Russia....
Now we find out that Adam Schiff was spending time together in Aspen with Glenn Simpson of GPS Fusion who wrote the fake and discredited Dossier even though Simpson was testifying before Schiff. John Solomon of @thehill
Not only did Senator Burrs Committee find No Collusion by the Trump Campaign and Russia its important because they interviewed 200 witnesses and 300000 pages of documents the Committee has direct access to intelligence information thats Classified. @GreggJarrett
Highly respected Senator Richard Burr Chairman of Senate Intelligence said today that after an almost two year investigation he saw no evidence of Russia collusion. We dont have anything that would suggest there was collusion by the Trump campaign and Russia. Thank you!
So nice how well my State of the Union speech was received. Thank you to all!
Each year America pauses to remember its fallen astronaut heroes and the great accomplishments for which they strived. @FLOTUS Melania and I mourn their passing and take to heart the lessons of their lives and the greater human potential to which they continue to inspire. 
Today it was my great honor to sign a Presidential Memorandum launching the Womens Global Development and Prosperity Initiative. #WGDP Read more: 
2019 National Prayer Breakfast 
PRESIDENTIAL HARASSMENT! It should never be allowed to happen again!
Democrats at the top are killing the Great State of Virginia. If the three failing pols were Republicans far stronger action would be taken. Virginia will come back HOME Republican) in 2020!
....The Dems and their committees are going nuts. The Republicans never did this to President Obama there would be no time left to run government. I hear other committee heads will do the same thing. Even stealing people who work at White House! A continuation of Witch Hunt!
So now Congressman Adam Schiff announces after having found zero Russian Collusion that he is going to be looking at every aspect of my life both financial and personal even though there is no reason to be doing so. Never happened before! Unlimited Presidential Harassment....
Looking forward to tonight! #SOTU 
Melania and I send our greetings to those celebrating the Lunar New Year. Today people across the United States and around the world mark the beginning of the Lunar New Year with spectacular fireworks displays joyful festivals and family gatherings...
I see Schumer is already criticizing my State of the Union speech even though he hasnt seen it yet. Hes just upset that he didnt win the Senate after spending a fortune like he thought he would. Too bad we werent given more credit for the Senate win by the media!
Tremendous numbers of people are coming up through Mexico in the hopes of flooding our Southern Border. We have sent additional military. We will build a Human Wall if necessary. If we had a real Wall this would be a non-event!
I am pleased to announce that David Bernhardt Acting Secretary of the Interior will be nominated as Secretary of the Interior. David has done a fantastic job from the day he arrived and we look forward to having his nomination officially confirmed!
With Caravans marching through Mexico and toward our Country Republicans must be prepared to do whatever is necessary for STRONG Border Security. Dems do nothing. If there is no Wall there is no Security. Human Trafficking Drugs and Criminals of all dimensions - KEEP OUT!
With Caravans marching through Mexico and toward our Country Republicans must be prepared to do whatever is necessary for STRONG Border Security. Dems do nothing. If there is no Wall there is no Security. Human Trafficking Drugs and Criminals of all dimensionns - KEEP OUT!
Everyone is asking how Tiger played yesterday. The answer is Great! He was long straight putted fantastically well. He shot a 64. Tiger is back will be winning Majors again! Not surprisingly Jack also played really well. His putting is amazing! Jack Tiger like each other.
I will be interviewed Sunday morning on @FaceTheNation and prior to the Super Bowl on @CBS at 3:30 P.M. Enjoy!
Ed Gillespie who ran for Governor of the Great State of Virginia against Ralph Northam must now be thinking Malpractice and Dereliction of Duty with regard to his Opposition Research Staff. If they find that terrible picture before the election he wins by 20 points!
Democrat Governor Ralph Northam of Virginia just stated I believe that I am not either of the people in that photo. This was 24 hours after apologizing for appearing in the picture and after making the most horrible statement on super late term abortion. Unforgivable!
Great morning at Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter Florida with @JackNicklaus and @TigerWoods! 
National African American History Month is an occasion to rediscover the enduring stories of African Americans and the gifts of freedom purpose and opportunity they have bestowed on future generations...
Thank you to Senator Rob Portman and Senator Cory Gardner for the early and warm endorsement. We will ALL WIN in 2020 together!
Great news on Foxconn in Wisconsin after my conversation with Terry Gou! 
JOBS JOBS JOBS! 
Best January for the DOW in over 30 years. We have by far the strongest economy in the world!
....after 18 long years. Syria was loaded with ISIS until I came along. We will soon have destroyed 100% of the Caliphate but will be watching them closely. It is now time to start coming home and after many years spending our money wisely. Certain people must get smart!
I inherited a total mess in Syria and Afghanistan the Endless Wars of unlimited spending and death. During my campaign I said very strongly that these wars must finally end. We spend $50 Billion a year in Afghanistan and have hit them so hard that we are now talking peace...
This Witch Hunt must end! 
Nellie Ohr the wife of DOJ official Bruce Ohr was long ago investigating for pay (GPS Fusion) members of my family feeding it to her husband who was then giving it to the FBI even though it was created by ousted discredited Christopher Steele. Illegal! WITCH HUNT
Just out: The big deal very mysterious Don jr telephone calls after the innocent Trump Tower meeting that the media Dems said were made to his father (me) were just conclusively found NOT to be made to me. They were made to friends business associates of Don. Really sad!
Our great U.S. Border Patrol Agents made the biggest Fentanyl bust in our Countrys history. Thanks as always for a job well done!
....I would suggest you read the COMPLETE testimony from Tuesday. A false narrative is so bad for our Country. I value our intelligence community. Happily we had a very good meeting and we are all on the same page!
Just concluded a great meeting with my Intel team in the Oval Office who told me that what they said on Tuesday at the Senate Hearing was mischaracterized by the media - and we are very much in agreement on Iran ISIS North Korea etc. Their testimony was distorted press.... 
Very sadly Murder cases in Mexico in 2018 rose 33% from 2017 to 33341. This is a big contributor to the Humanitarian Crisis taking place on our Southern Border and then spreading throughout our Country. Worse even than Afghanistan. Much caused by DRUGS. Wall is being built!
Schumer and the Democrats are big fans of being weak and passive with Iran. They have no clue as to the danger they would be inflicting on our Country. Iran is in financial chaos now because of the sanctions and Iran Deal termination. Dems put us in a bad place - but now good!
Looking for China to open their Markets not only to Financial Services which they are now doing but also to our Manufacturing Farmers and other U.S. businesses and industries. Without this a deal would be unacceptable!
More troops being sent to the Southern Border to stop the attempted Invasion of Illegals through large Caravans into our Country. We have stopped the previous Caravans and we will stop these also. With a Wall it would be soooo much easier and less expensive. Being Built!
Democrats are becoming the Party of late term abortion high taxes Open Borders and Crime!
Republicans on the Homeland Security Committee are wasting their time. Democrats despite all of the evidence proof and Caravans coming are not going to give money to build the DESPERATELY needed WALL. Ive got you covered. Wall is already being built I dont expect much help!
....Chinas representatives and I are trying to do a complete deal leaving NOTHING unresolved on the table. All of the many problems are being discussed and will be hopefully resolved. Tariffs on China increase to 25% on March 1st so all working hard to complete by that date!
....meeting with their top leaders and representatives today in the Oval Office. No final deal will be made until my friend President Xi and I meet in the near future to discuss and agree on some of the long standing and more difficult points. Very comprehensive transaction....
Chinas top trade negotiators are in the U.S. meeting with our representatives. Meetings are going well with good intent and spirit on both sides. China does not want an increase in Tariffs and feels they will do much better if they make a deal. They are correct. I will be......
With Murders up 33% in Mexico a record why wouldnt any sane person want to build a Wall! Construction has started and will not stop until it is finished. @LouDobbs @foxandfriends
Very sadly Murder cases in Mexico in 2018 rose 33% from 2017 to 33341. This is a big contributor to the Humanitarian Crises taking place on our Southern Border and then spreading throughout our Country. Worse even than Afghanistan. Much caused by DRUGS. Wall is being built!
Lets just call them WALLS from now on and stop playing political games! A WALL is a WALL!
Large sections of WALL have already been built with much more either under construction or ready to go. Renovation of existing WALLS is also a very big part of the plan to finally after many decades properly Secure Our Border. The Wall is getting done one way or the other!
So great to watch listen to all these people who write books talk about my presidential campaign and so many others things related to winning and how I should be doing IT. As I take it all in I then sit back look around say gee Im in the White House theyre not!
Spoke today with Venezuelan Interim President Juan Guaido to congratulate him on his historic assumption of the presidency and reinforced strong United States support for Venezuelas fight to regain its democracy....
....Large protests all across Venezuela today against Maduro. The fight for freedom has begun!
Dow just broke 25000. Tremendous news!
....a source of potential danger and conflict. They are testing Rockets (last week) and more and are coming very close to the edge. There economy is now crashing which is the only thing holding them back. Be careful of Iran. Perhaps Intelligence should go back to school!
The Intelligence people seem to be extremely passive and naive when it comes to the dangers of Iran. They are wrong! When I became President Iran was making trouble all over the Middle East and beyond. Since ending the terrible Iran Nuclear Deal they are MUCH different but....
Three separate caravans marching to our Border. The numbers are tremendous. @foxandfriends
If the committee of Republicans and Democrats now meeting on Border Security is not discussing or contemplating a Wall or Physical Barrier they are Wasting their time!
...Time will tell what will happen with North Korea but at the end of the previous administration relationship was horrendous and very bad things were about to happen. Now a whole different story. I look forward to seeing Kim Jong Un shortly. Progress being made-big difference!
....Fighting continues but the people of Afghanistan want peace in this never ending war. We will soon see if talks will be successful? North Korea relationship is best it has ever been with U.S. No testing getting remains hostages returned. Decent chance of Denuclearization...
When I became President ISIS was out of control in Syria running rampant. Since then tremendous progress made especially over last 5 weeks. Caliphate will soon be destroyed unthinkable two years ago. Negotiating are proceeding well in Afghanistan after 18 years of fighting..
Maduro willing to negotiate with opposition in Venezuela following U.S. sanctions and the cutting off of oil revenues. Guaido is being targeted by Venezuelan Supreme Court. Massive protest expected today. Americans should not travel to Venezuela until further notice.
Our economy right now is the Gold Standard throughout the World. @IngrahamAngle So true and not even close!
A low level staffer that I hardly knew named Cliff Sims wrote yet another boring book based on made up stories and fiction. He pretended to be an insider when in fact he was nothing more than a gofer. He signed a non-disclosure agreement. He is a mess!
How does Da Nang Dick (Blumenthal) serve on the Senate Judiciary Committee when he defrauded the American people about his so called War Hero status in Vietnam only to later admit with tears pouring down his face that he was never in Vietnam. An embarrassment to our Country!
In the beautiful Midwest windchill temperatures are reaching minus 60 degrees the coldest ever recorded. In coming days expected to get even colder. People cant last outside even for minutes. What the hell is going on with Global Waming? Please come back fast we need you!
In the Medias effort to destroy the President they are actually destroying themselves. Given all of the tremendous headwinds this President has faced its amazing he has accomplished so much. DEROY MURDOCK @foxandfriends I agree!
Howard Schultz doesnt have the guts to run for President! Watched him on @60Minutes last night and I agree with him that he is not the smartest person. Besides America already has that! I only hope that Starbucks is still paying me their rent in Trump Tower!
Numerous states introducing Bible Literacy classes giving students the option of studying the Bible. Starting to make a turn back? Great!
Tariffs on the dumping of Steel in the United States have totally revived our Steel Industry. New and expanded plants are happening all over the U.S. We have not only saved this important industry but created many jobs. Also billions paid to our treasury. A BIG WIN FOR U.S.
After all that I have done for the Military our great Veterans Judges (99) Justices (2) Tax Regulation Cuts the Economy Energy Trade MUCH MORE does anybody really think I wont build the WALL? Done more in first two years than any President! MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
Never thought Id say this but I think @johnrobertsFox and @GillianHTurner @FoxNews have even less understanding of the Wall negotiations than the folks at FAKE NEWS CNN NBC! Look to final results! Dont know how my poll numbers are so good especially up 19% with Hispanics?
Never thought Id say this but I think @johnrobertsFox and @JillianTurner @FoxNews have even less understanding of the Wall negotiations than the folks at FAKE NEWS CNN NBC! Look to final results! Dont know how my poll numbers are so good especially up 19% with Hispanics?
BUILD A WALL CRIME WILL FALL! 
Thank you to Brit. This is a very big deal in Europe. Fake News is the Enemy of the People! 
Jens Stoltenberg NATO Secretary General just stated that because of me NATO has been able to raise far more money than ever before from its members after many years of decline. Its called burden sharing. Also more united. Dems Fake News like to portray the opposite!
We are not even into February and the cost of illegal immigration so far this year is $18959495168. Cost Friday was $603331392. There are at least 25772342 illegal aliens not the 11000000 that have been reported for years in our Country. So ridiculous! DHS
58000 non-citizens voted in Texas with 95000 non-citizens registered to vote. These numbers are just the tip of the iceberg. All over the country especially in California voter fraud is rampant. Must be stopped. Strong voter ID! @foxandfriends
WITCH HUNT!
....about all of the one sided Fake Media coverage (collusion with Crooked H?) that I had to endure during my very successful presidential campaign. What about the now revealed bias by Facebook and many others. Roger Stone didnt even work for me anywhere near the Election!
CBS reports that in the Roger Stone indictment data was released during the 2016 Election to damage Hillary Clinton. Oh really! What about the Fake and Unverified Dossier a total phony conjob that was paid for by Crooked Hillary to damage me and the Trump Campaign? What...
Ax falls quickly at BuzzFeed and Huffpost! Headline New York Post. Fake News and bad journalism have caused a big downturn. Sadly many others will follow. The people want the Truth!
Only fools or people with a political agenda dont want a Wall or Steel Barrier to protect our Country from Crime Drugs and Human Trafficking. It will happen - it always does!
BUILD A WALL CRIME WILL FALL! 
We absolutely need a physical barrier or Wall whatever you want to call it. The President yesterday laid all that out. We need to do it all including the Wall. I provided the same information to the previous administration it was ignored. Mark Morgan Border Chief for O!
Thank you to the Republican National Committee (the RNC) who voted UNANIMOUSLY yesterday to support me in the upcoming 2020 Election. Considering that we have done more than any Administration in the first two years this should be easy. More great things now in the works!
We have turned away at great expense two major Caravans but a big one has now formed and is coming. At least 8000 people! If we had a powerful Wall they wouldnt even try to make the long and dangerous journey. Build the Wall and Crime will Fall!
21 days goes very quickly. Negotiations with Democrats will start immediately. Will not be easy to make a deal both parties very dug in. The case for National Security has been greatly enhanced by what has been happening at the Border through dialogue. We will build the Wall!
I like the fact that the President is making the case (Border Security Crime) to the American people. Now we know where Nancy Pelosi Chuck Schumer the Democrats stand which is no Border Security. Will be big 2020 issue. Matt Schlapp Chair ACU. Bigger than anyone knows!
If Roger Stone was indicted for lying to Congress what about the lying done by Comey Brennan Clapper Lisa Page lover Baker and soooo many others? What about Hillary to FBI and her 33000 deleted Emails? What about Lisa Peters deleted texts Wieners laptop? Much more!
I wish people would read or listen to my words on the Border Wall. This was in no way a concession. It was taking care of millions of people who were getting badly hurt by the Shutdown with the understanding that in 21 days if no deal is done its off to the races!
Greatest Witch Hunt in the History of our Country! NO COLLUSION! Border Coyotes Drug Dealers and Human Traffickers are treated better. Who alerted CNN to be there?
A third rate conman who interviewed me many years ago for just a short period of time has been playing his biggest con of all on Fake News CNN. Michael DAntonio a broken down hack who knows nothing about me goes on night after night telling made up Trump stories. Disgraceful!
Great earnings coming out of Stock Market. Too bad Media doesnt devote much time to this!
Nancy just said she just doesnt understand why? Very simply without a Wall it all doesnt work. Our Country has a chance to greatly reduce Crime Human Trafficking Gangs and Drugs. Should have been done for decades. We will not Cave!
Without a Wall there cannot be safety and security at the Border or for the U.S.A. BUILD THE WALL AND CRIME WILL FALL!
...back home where they belong no more Rockets or Ms being fired over Japan or anywhere else and most importantly no Nuclear Testing. This is more than has ever been accomplished with North Korea and the Fake News knows it. I expect another good meeting soon much potential!
The Fake News Media loves saying so little happened at my first summit with Kim Jong Un. Wrong! After 40 years of doing nothing with North Korea but being taken to the cleaners with a major war ready to start in a short 15 months relationships built hostages remains....
So interesting that bad lawyer Michael Cohen who sadly will not be testifying before Congress is using the lawyer of Crooked Hillary Clinton to represent him - Gee how did that happen? Remember July 4th weekend when Crooked went before FBI wasnt sworn in no tape nothing?
The economy is doing great. More people working in U.S.A. today than at any time in our HISTORY. Media barely covers! @foxandfriends
This is everything FDR dreamed about the New Deal to put America back to work. Think of LBJ he gave people food stamps welfare. Donald Trumps giving them a job. Hes got a lot of good things to talk about. News stories do not accurately cover him should correct. @DougWead
A great new book just out Game of Thorns by Doug Wead Presidential Historian and best selling author. The book covers the campaign of 2016 and what could be more exciting than that?
....alternative venue for the SOTU Address because there is no venue that can compete with the history tradition and importance of the House Chamber. I look forward to giving a great State of the Union Address in the near future!
As the Shutdown was going on Nancy Pelosi asked me to give the State of the Union Address. I agreed. She then changed her mind because of the Shutdown suggesting a later date. This is her prerogative - I will do the Address when the Shutdown is over. I am not looking for an....
The Historic Results of President Donald J. Trumps First Two Years in Office 
Even Trump Haters like (MS)NBC acknowledge you BUILD A WALL CRIME WILL FALL! 
The citizens of Venezuela have suffered for too long at the hands of the illegitimate Maduro regime. Today I have officially recognized the President of the Venezuelan National Assembly Juan Guaido as the Interim President of Venezuela. 
BUILD A WALL CRIME WILL FALL!
BUILD A WALL CRIME WILL FALL! This is the new theme for two years until the Wall is finished (under construction now) of the Republican Party. Use it and pray!
Great unity in the Republican Party. Want to once and for all put an end to stoppable crime and drugs! Border Security and Wall. No doubt!
Deroy Murdock National Review: We are now exporting oil which is the first time in my lifetime - we are right now the largest producer of oil and gas. This is not good if youre Vladimir Putin where your chief export is oil. W.H. Agent - Not good for Kremlin. @TuckerCarlson
Congratulations to Mariano Rivera on unanimously being elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame! Not only a great player but a great person. I am thankful for Marianos support of the Opioid Drug Abuse Commission and @FitnessGov. #EnterSandman #HOF2019? 
...big Crooked Hillary law firm represented by her lawyer Michael Sussmann (do you believe this?) who worked Baker hard gave him Oppo Research for a Russia probe. This meeting now exposed is the subject of Senate inquiries and much more. An Unconstitutional Hoax. @FoxNews
Former FBI top lawyer James Baker just admitted involvement in FISA Warrant and further admitted there were IRREGULARITIES in the way the Russia probe was handled. They relied heavily on the unverified Trump Dossier paid for by the DNC Clinton Campaign funded through a...
The reason Sarah Sanders does not go to the podium much anymore is that the press covers her so rudely inaccurately in particular certain members of the press. I told her not to bother the word gets out anyway! Most will never cover us fairly hence the term Fake News!
The United States has a great economic story to tell. Number one in the World by far!
Last time I went to Davos the Fake News said I should not go there. This year because of the Shutdown I decided not to go and the Fake News said I should be there. The fact is that the people understand the media better than the media understands them!
Never seen @senatemajldr and Republicans so united on an issue as they are on the Humanitarian Crisis Security on our Southern Border. If we create a Wall or Barrier which prevents Criminals and Drugs from flowing into our Country Crime will go down by record numbers!
Marist/NPR/PBS Poll shows President Trumps approval rating among Latinos going to 50% an increase in one year of 19%. Thank you working hard!
FBI top lawyer confirms unusual steps. They relied on the Clinton Campaigns Fake Unverified Dossier which is illegal. That has corrupted them. That has enabled them to gather evidence by UNCONSTITUTIONAL MEANS and thats what they did to the President. Judge Napolitano
Without a Wall our Country can never have Border or National Security. With a powerful Wall or Steel Barrier Crime Rates (and Drugs) will go substantially down all over the U.S. The Dems know this but want to play political games. Must finally be done correctly. No Cave!
The Democrats are playing politics with Border Security. @foxandfriends
Nick Sandmann and the students of Covington have become symbols of Fake News and how evil it can be. They have captivated the attention of the world and I know they will use it for the good - maybe even to bring people together. It started off unpleasant but can end in a dream!
Looking like Nick Sandman Covington Catholic students were treated unfairly with early judgements proving out to be false - smeared by media. Not good but making big comeback! New footage shows that media was wrong about teens encounter with Native American @TuckerCarlson
Democrats are kidding themselves (they dont really believe it!) if they say you can stop Crime Drugs Human Trafficking and Caravans without a Wall or Steel Barrier. Stop playing games and give America the Security it deserves. A Humanitarian Crisis!
Four people in Nevada viciously robbed and killed by an illegal immigrant who should not have been in our Country. 26 people killed on the Border in a drug and gang related fight. Two large Caravans from Honduras broke into Mexico and are headed our way. We need a powerful Wall!
If Nancy Pelosi thinks that Walls are immoral why isnt she requesting that we take down all of the existing Walls between the U.S. and Mexico even the new ones just built in San Diego at their very strong urging. Let millions of unchecked strangers just flow into the U.S.
China posts slowest economic numbers since 1990 due to U.S. trade tensions and new policies. Makes so much sense for China to finally do a Real Deal and stop playing around!
Today it was my great honor to visit the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial with @VP Mike Pence in honor of #MLKDay 
Democrats campaigned on working within Washington and getting things done! How is that working out? #2020TAKEBACKTHEHOUSE
Today we celebrate Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. for standing up for the self-evident truth Americans hold so dear that no matter what the color of our skin or the place of our birth we are all created equal by God. #MLKDay 
Last year was the best year for American Manufacturing job growth since 1997 or 21 years. The previous administration said manufacturing will not come back to the U.S. you would need a magic wand. I guess I found the MAGIC WAND - and it is only getting better!
No President in modern times has kept more promises than Donald Trump! Thank you Bill Bennett @SteveHiltonx
Curt Schilling deserves to be in the Baseball Hall of Fame. Great record especially when under pressure and when it mattered most. Do what everyone in Baseball knows is right! @marklevinshow
Congratulations to Bob Kraft Bill Belichick Tom Brady and the entire New England Patriots team on a great game and season. Will be a fantastic Super Bowl!
To all of the great people who are working so hard for your Country and not getting paid I say THANK YOU - YOU ARE GREAT PATRIOTS! We must now work together after decades of abuse to finally fix the Humanitarian Criminal Drug Crisis at our Border. WE WILL WIN BIG!
A truly great First Lady who doesnt get the credit she deserves! 
Thanks James! 
Will do a fantastic job! 
The Media is not giving us credit for the tremendous progress we have made with North Korea. Think of where we were at the end of the Obama Administration compared to now. Great meeting this week with top Reps. Looking forward to meeting with Chairman Kim at end of February!
Thank you David! 
Dont forget we are building and renovating big sections of Wall right now. Moving quickly and will cost far less than previous politicians thought possible. Building after all is what I do best even when money is not readily available!
Wow just heard that my poll numbers with Hispanics has gone up 19% to 50%. That is because they know the Border issue better than anyone and they want Security which can only be gotten with a Wall.
Nancy I am still thinking about the State of the Union speech there are so many options - including doing it as per your written offer (made during the Shutdown security is no problem) and my written acceptance. While a contract is a contract Ill get back to you soon!
Nancy Pelosi has behaved so irrationally has gone so far to the left that she has now officially become a Radical Democrat. She is so petrified of the lefties in her party that she has lost control...And by the way clean up the streets in San Francisco they are disgusting!
No Amnesty is not a part of my offer. It is a 3 year extension of DACA. Amnesty will be used only on a much bigger deal whether on immigration or something else. Likewise there will be no big push to remove the 11000000 plus people who are here illegally-but be careful Nancy!
Nancy Pelosi and some of the Democrats turned down my offer yesterday before I even got up to speak. They dont see crime drugs they only see 2020 - which they are not going to win. Best economy! They should do the right thing for the Country allow people to go back to work.
Be careful and try staying in your house. Large parts of the Country are suffering from tremendous amounts of snow and near record setting cold. Amazing how big this system is. Wouldnt be bad to have a little of that good old fashioned Global Warming right now!
Always heard that as President its all about the economy! Well we have one of the best economies in the history of our Country. Big GDP lowest unemployment companies coming back to the U.S. in BIG numbers great new trade deals happening more. But LITTLE media mention!
I will be live from the White House at 4:00 P.M.
Mexico is doing NOTHING to stop the Caravan which is now fully formed and heading to the United States. We stopped the last two - many are still in Mexico but cant get through our Wall but it takes a lot of Border Agents if there is no Wall. Not easy!
Many people are saying that the Mainstream Media will have a very hard time restoring credibility because of the way they have treated me over the past 3 years (including the election lead-up) as highlighted by the disgraceful Buzzfeed story the even more disgraceful coverage!
The Economy is one of the best in our history with unemployment at a 50 year low and the Stock Market ready to again break a record (set by us many times) - all you heard yesterday based on a phony story was Impeachment. You want to see a Stock Market Crash Impeach Trump!
.@newtgingrich just stated that there has been no president since Abraham Lincoln who has been treated worse or more unfairly by the media than your favorite President me! At the same time there has been no president who has accomplished more in his first two years in office!
Will be leaving for Dover to be with the families of 4 very special people who lost their lives in service to our Country!
Fake News is truly the ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!
Remember it was Buzzfeed that released the totally discredited Dossier paid for by Crooked Hillary Clinton and the Democrats (as opposition research) on which the entire Russian probe is based! A very sad day for journalism but a great day for our Country!
Just a son who loves his Dad. Nice! 
I will be making a major announcement concerning the Humanitarian Crisis on our Southern Border and the Shutdown tomorrow afternoon at 3 P.M. live from the @WhiteHouse.
AMERICA FIRST!
MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
Never seen the Republican Party so unified. No Cave on the issue of Border and National Security. A beautiful thing to see especially when you hear the new rhetoric spewing from the mouths of the Democrats who talk Open Border High Taxes and Crime. Stop Criminals Drugs now!
Kevin Corke @FoxNews Dont forget Michael Cohen has already been convicted of perjury and fraud and as recently as this week the Wall Street Journal has suggested that he may have stolen tens of thousands of dollars.... Lying to reduce his jail time! Watch father-in-law!
Another big Caravan heading our way. Very hard to stop without a Wall!
Its the Democrats keeping everything closed. @JimInhofe So true!
Why would Nancy Pelosi leave the Country with other Democrats on a seven day excursion when 800000 great people are not getting paid. Also could somebody please explain to Nancy her big donors in wine country that people working on farms (grapes) will have easy access in!
Border rancher: Weve found prayer rugs out here. Its unreal. Washington Examiner People coming across the Southern Border from many countries some of which would be a big surprise.
Gregg Jarrett: Muellers prosecutors knew the Dossier was the product of bias and deception. It was a Fake just like so much news coverage in our Country. Nothing but a Witch Hunt from beginning to end!
In 2018 alone 20000 illegal aliens with criminal records were apprehended trying to cross the Border and there was a 122% increase in fentanyl being smuggled between ports of entry. Last month alone more than 20000 minors were smuggled into the U.S. @seanhannity
Thank you to Amy Kremer Women for Trump Co-Founder for doing such a great interview with Martha MacCallum...and by the way women have the lowest unemployment numbers in many decades - at the highest pay ever. Proud of that!
So funny to watch Schumer groveling. He called for the firing of bad cop James Comey many times - UNTIL I FIRED HIM!
The Left has become totally unhinged. They no longer care what is Right for our Countrty!
It is becoming more and more obvious that the Radical Democrats are a Party of open borders and crime. They want nothing to do with the major Humanitarian Crisis on our Southern Border. #2020!
There are now 77 major or significant Walls built around the world with 45 countries planning or building Walls. Over 800 miles of Walls have been built in Europe since only 2015. They have all been recognized as close to 100% successful. Stop the crime at our Southern Border!
Great being with the National Champion Clemson Tigers last night at the White House. Because of the Shutdown I served them massive amounts of Fast Food (I paid) over 1000 hamburgers etc. Within one hour it was all gone. Great guys and big eaters!
Congratulations @ClemsonFB! 
Why is Nancy Pelosi getting paid when people who are working are not?
Great being with the National Champion Clemson Tigers last night at the White House. Because of the Shutdown I served them massive amounts of Fast Food (I paid) over 1000 hamberders etc. Within one hour it was all gone. Great guys and big eaters!
Polls are now showing that people are beginning to understand the Humanitarian Crisis and Crime at the Border. Numbers are going up fast over 50%. Democrats will soon be known as the Party of Crime. Ridiculous that they dont want Border Security!
A big new Caravan is heading up to our Southern Border from Honduras. Tell Nancy and Chuck that a drone flying around will not stop them. Only a Wall will work. Only a Wall or Steel Barrier will keep our Country safe! Stop playing political games and end the Shutdown!
Volkswagen will be spending 800 million dollars in Chattanooga Tennessee. They will be making Electric Cars. Congratulations to Chattanooga and Tennessee on a job well done. A big win!
Just announced that Veterans unemployment has reached an 18 year low really good news for our Vets and their families. Will soon be an all time low! Do you think the media will report on this and all of the other great economic news?
The rank and file of the FBI are great people who are disgusted with what they are learning about Lyin James Comey and the so-called leaders of the FBI. Twelve have been fired or forced to leave. They got caught spying on my campaign and then called it an investigation. Bad!
....I am doing exactly what I pledged to do and what I was elected to do by the citizens of our great Country. Just as I promised I am fighting for YOU!
For decades politicians promised to secure the border fix our trade deals bring back our factories get tough on China move the Embassy to Jerusalem make NATO pay their fair share and so much else - only to do NOTHING (or worse)....
Spoke w/ President Erdogan of Turkey to advise where we stand on all matters including our last two weeks of success in fighting the remnants of ISIS and 20 mile safe zone. Also spoke about economic development between the U.S. Turkey - great potential to substantially expand!
Getting ready to go on stage at the #AFBF100 in New Orleans - packed house! I will try and match the great game played yesterday by the New Orleans Saints and their incredible QB Drew Brees. People here are very excited by the team. Going on stage now! 
The Fake News gets crazier and more dishonest every single day. Amazing to watch as certain people covering me and the tremendous success of this administration have truly gone MAD! Their Fake reporting creates anger and disunity. Take two weeks off and come back rested. Chill!
Dems in Puerto Rico as Shutdown hits day 24. @foxandfriends
Getting ready to address the Farm Convention today in Nashville Tennessee. Love our farmers love Tennessee - a great combination! See you in a little while.
Nancy and Cryin Chuck can end the Shutdown in 15 minutes. At this point it has become their and the Democrats fault!
Ive been waiting all weekend. Democrats must get to work now. Border must be secured!
Gas prices drop across the United States because President Trump has deregulated Energy and we are now producing a great deal more oil than ever before. @foxandfriends But this is bad news for Russia why would President Trump do such a thing? Thought he worked for Kremlin?
....Border is eventually going to be militarized and defended or the United States as we have known it is going to cease to exist...And Americans will not go gentle into that good night. Patrick Buchanan. The great people of our Country demand proper Border Security NOW!
The Trump portrait of an unsustainable Border Crisis is dead on. In the last two years ICE officers made 266000 arrests of aliens with Criminal Records including those charged or convicted of 100000 assaults 30000 sex crimes 4000 violent killings. Americas Southern....
Best line in the Elizabeth Warren beer catastrophe is to her husband Thank you for being here. Im glad youre here Its their house hes supposed to be there!
If Elizabeth Warren often referred to by me as Pocahontas did this commercial from Bighorn or Wounded Knee instead of her kitchen with her husband dressed in full Indian garb it would have been a smash! 
If Elizabeth Warren often referred to by me as Pocahontas did this commercial from Bighorn or Wounded Knee instead of her kitchen with her husband dressed in full Indian garb it would have been a smash! 
So sorry to hear the news about Jeff Bozo being taken down by a competitor whose reporting I understand is far more accurate than the reporting in his lobbyist newspaper the Amazon Washington Post. Hopefully the paper will soon be placed in better more responsible hands!
....Likewise do not want the Kurds to provoke Turkey. Russia Iran and Syria have been the biggest beneficiaries of the long term U.S. policy of destroying ISIS in Syria - natural enemies. We also benefit but it is now time to bring our troops back home. Stop the ENDLESS WARS!
Starting the long overdue pullout from Syria while hitting the little remaining ISIS territorial caliphate hard and from many directions. Will attack again from existing nearby base if it reforms. Will devastate Turkey economically if they hit Kurds. Create 20 mile safe zone....
Wish I could share with everyone the beauty and majesty of being in the White House and looking outside at the snow filled lawns and Rose Garden. Really is something - SPECIAL COUNTRY SPECIAL PLACE!
Thousands of illegal aliens who have committed sexual crimes against children are right now in Texas prisons. Most came through our Southern Border. We can end this easily - We need a Steel Barrier or Wall. Walls Work! John Jones Texas Department of Public Safety. @FoxNews
The damage done to our Country from a badly broken Border - Drugs Crime and so much that is bad - is far greater than a Shutdown which the Dems can easily fix as soon as they come back to Washington!
Im in the White House waiting. The Democrats are everywhere but Washington as people await their pay. They are having fun and not even talking!
The building of the Wall on the Southern Border will bring down the crime rate throughout the entire Country!
Democrats are saying that DACA is not worth it and dont want to include in talks. Many Hispanics will be coming over to the Republican side watch!
I will be interviewed by Jeanine Pirro at 9:00 P.M. on @FoxNews. Watch @JesseBWatters before and @greggutfeld after. All terrific people. I am in the White House waiting for Cryin Chuck and Nancy to call so we can start helping our Country both at the Border and from within!
We have a massive Humanitarian Crisis at our Southern Border. We will be out for a long time unless the Democrats come back from their vacations and get back to work. I am in the White House ready to sign!
....I do have a plan on the Shutdown. But to understand that plan you would have to understand the fact that I won the election and I promised safety and security for the American people. Part of that promise was a Wall at the Southern Border. Elections have consequences!
I just watched a Fake reporter from the Amazon Washington Post say the White House is chaotic there does not seem to be a strategy for this Shutdown. There is no plan. The Fakes always like talking Chaos there is NONE. In fact theres almost nobody in the W.H. but me and...
Democrats could solve the Shutdown in 15 minutes! Call your Dem Senator or Congresswoman/man. Tell them to get it done! Humanitarian Crisis.
23% of Federal inmates are illegal immigrants. Border arrests are up 240%. In the Great State of Texas between 2011 2018 there were a total of 292000 crimes by illegal aliens 539 murders 32000 assaults 3426 sexual assaults and 3000 weapons charges. Democrats come back!
Democrats should come back to Washington and work to end the Shutdown while at the same time ending the horrible humanitarian crisis at our Southern Border. I am in the White House waiting for you!
Lyin James Comey Andrew McCabe Peter S and his lover agent Lisa Page more all disgraced and/or fired and caught in the act. These are just some of the losers that tried to do a number on your President. Part of the Witch Hunt. Remember the insurance policy? This is it!
I have been FAR tougher on Russia than Obama Bush or Clinton. Maybe tougher than any other President. At the same time as I have often said getting along with Russia is a good thing not a bad thing. I fully expect that someday we will have good relations with Russia again!
.....who is being totally protected by his best friend Bob Mueller the 13 Angry Democrats - leaking machines who have NO interest in going after the Real Collusion (and much more) by Crooked Hillary Clinton her Campaign and the Democratic National Committee. Just Watch!
....the FBI was in complete turmoil (see N.Y. Post) because of Comeys poor leadership and the way he handled the Clinton mess (not to mention his usurpation of powers from the Justice Department). My firing of James Comey was a great day for America. He was a Crooked Cop......
...Funny thing about James Comey. Everybody wanted him fired Republican and Democrat alike. After the rigged botched Crooked Hillary investigation where she was interviewed on July 4th Weekend not recorded or sworn in and where she said she didnt know anything (a lie)....
Wow just learned in the Failing New York Times that the corrupt former leaders of the FBI almost all fired or forced to leave the agency for some very bad reasons opened up an investigation on me for no reason with no proof after I fired Lyin James Comey a total sleaze!
.@CNN called a San Diego news station (@KUSINews) for negative reports on the Wall. When the station said that Walls work CNN no longer had interest. #FakeNews 
Drug prices declined in 2018 the first time in nearly half a century. During the first 19 months of my Administration Americans saved $26 Billion on prescription drugs. Our policies to get cheaper generic drugs to market are working!
I look forward to hosting right out of the great State of South Carolina the 2019 NCAA Football Champion Clemson Tigers at the White House on Monday January 14th. What a game what a coach what a team!
The Fake News Media keeps saying we havent built any NEW WALL. Below is a section just completed on the Border. Anti-climbing feature included. Very high strong and beautiful! Also many miles already renovated and in service! 
...The Steel Barrier or Wall should have been built by previous administrations long ago. They never got it done - I will. Without it our Country cannot be safe. Criminals Gangs Human Traffickers Drugs so much other big trouble can easily pour in. It can be stopped cold!
Humanitarian Crisis at our Southern Border. I just got back and it is a far worse situation than almost anyone would understand an invasion! I have been there numerous times - The Democrats Cryin Chuck and Nancy dont know how bad and dangerous it is for our ENTIRE COUNTRY....
H1-B holders in the United States can rest assured that changes are soon coming which will bring both simplicity and certainty to your stay including a potential path to citizenship. We want to encourage talented and highly skilled people to pursue career options in the U.S.
I often said during rallies with little variation that Mexico will pay for the Wall. We have just signed a great new Trade Deal with Mexico. It is Billions of Dollars a year better than the very bad NAFTA deal which it replaces. The difference pays for Wall many times over!
When I took the Oath of Office.... 
We lose 300 Americans a week 90% of which comes through the Southern Border. These numbers will be DRASTICALLY REDUCED if we have a Wall!
Will be interviewed at the Border by @seanhannity on @FoxNews tonight at 9:00. Enjoy!
Dear Diary... 
From the Southern Border.... 
Because of the Democrats intransigence on Border Security and the great importance of Safety for our Nation I am respectfully cancelling my very important trip to Davos Switzerland for the World Economic Forum. My warmest regards and apologies to the @WEF!
President Obama thank you for your great support  I have been saying this all along! 
MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
Getting ready to leave for the Great State of Texas! #MAGA
Great support for Border Security and the Wall. @foxandfriends Even greater than anyone would know! Presidents supporters do not want him to cave. @SteveDoocy I wont!
There is GREAT unity with the Republicans in the House and Senate despite the Fake News Media working in overdrive to make the story look otherwise. The Opposition Party the Dems know we must have Strong Border Security but dont want to give Trump another one of many wins!
Cryin Chuck told his favorite lie when he used his standard sound bite that I slammed the table walked out of the room. He had a temper tantrum. Because I knew he would say that and after Nancy said no to proper Border Security I politely said bye-bye and left no slamming!
Gave an OFF THE RECORD luncheon somewhat of a White House tradition or custom to network anchors yesterday - and they quickly leaked the contents of the meeting. Who would believe how bad it has gotten with the mainstream media which has gone totally bonkers!
The Mainstream Media has NEVER been more dishonest than it is now. NBC and MSNBC are going Crazy. They report stories purposely the exact opposite of the facts. They are truly the Opposition Party working with the Dems. May even be worse than Fake News CNN if that is possible!
Just left a meeting with Chuck and Nancy a total waste of time. I asked what is going to happen in 30 days if I quickly open things up are you going to approve Border Security which includes a Wall or Steel Barrier? Nancy said NO. I said bye-bye nothing else works!
Thank you to all of America's brave police deputies sheriffs and federal law enforcement on National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day! We love you and will always support you. 
Billions of dollars are sent to the State of California for Forest fires that with proper Forest Management would never happen. Unless they get their act together which is unlikely I have ordered FEMA to send no more money. It is a disgraceful situation in lives money!
Billions of dollars are sent to the State of California for Forrest fires that with proper Forrest Management would never happen. Unless they get their act together which is unlikely I have ordered FEMA to send no more money. It is a disgraceful situation in lives money!
Our Country is doing so well in so many ways. Great jobs numbers with a record setting December. We are rebuilding our military. Vets finally have Choice Accountability. Economy GDP are strong. Tax Reg cuts historic. Trade deals great. But we MUST fix our Southern Border!
Thank you for soooo many nice comments regarding my Oval Office speech. A very interesting experience!
Congratulations to a truly great football team the Clemson Tigers on an incredible win last night against a powerful Alabama team. A big win also for the Great State of South Carolina. Look forward to seeing the team and their brilliant coach for the second time at the W.H.
Talks with China are going very well!
The President is the biggest and best supporter of the Steel Industry in many years. We are now doing really well. The Tariffs let us compete. Was unfair that the Steel Industry lost its jobs to unfair trade laws. Very positive outcome. Mark Glyptis United Steelworkers
Economic numbers looking REALLY good. Can you imagine if I had long term ZERO interest rates to play with like the past administration rather than the rapidly raised normalized rates we have today. That would have been SO EASY! Still markets up BIG since 2016 Election!
Endless Wars especially those which are fought out of judgement mistakes that were made many years ago those where we are getting little financial or military help from the rich countries that so greatly benefit from what we are doing will eventually come to a glorious end!
I am pleased to inform you that I will Address the Nation on the Humanitarian and National Security crisis on our Southern Border. Tuesday night at 9:00 P.M. Eastern.
The Failing New York Times has knowingly written a very inaccurate story on my intentions on Syria. No different from my original statements we will be leaving at a proper pace while at the same time continuing to fight ISIS and doing all else that is prudent and necessary!.....
Congressman Adam Smith the new Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee just stated Yes there is a provision in law that says a president can declare an emergency. Its been done a number of times. No doubt but lets get our deal done in Congress!
....The Fake News Media in our Country is the real Opposition Party. It is truly the Enemy of the People! We must bring honesty back to journalism and reporting!
...The Fake News will knowingly lie and demean in order make the tremendous success of the Trump Administration and me look as bad as possible. They use non-existent sources write stories that are total fiction. Our Country is doing so well yet this is a sad day in America!
With all of the success that our Country is having including the just released jobs numbers which are off the charts the Fake News totally dishonest Media concerning me and my presidency has never been worse. Many have become crazed lunatics who have given up on the TRUTH!...
V.P. Mike Pence and group had a productive meeting with the Schumer/Pelosi representatives today. Many details of Border Security were discussed. We are now planning a Steel Barrier rather than concrete. It is both stronger less obtrusive. Good solution and made in the U.S.A.
Our GREAT MILITARY has delivered justice for the heroes lost and wounded in the cowardly attack on the USS Cole. We have just killed the leader of that attack Jamal al-Badawi. Our work against al Qaeda continues. We will never stop in our fight against Radical Islamic Terrorism!
Excited to see our friends in Egypt opening the biggest Cathedral in the Middle East. President El-Sisi is moving his country to a more inclusive future!
....The only reason they do not want to build a Wall is that Walls Work! 99% of our illegal Border crossings will end crime in our Country will go way down and we will save billions of dollars a year! A properly planned and constructed Wall will pay for itself many times a year!
We simply cannot allow people to pour into the United States undetected undocumented unchecked... Barrack Obama 2005. I voted when I was a Senator to build a barrier to try to prevent illegal immigrants from coming in... Hillary Clinton 2015.
Will be going to Camp David tomorrow morning for meetings on Border Security and many other topics with @WhiteHouse senior staff.
AP-NORC POLL: Immigration among the top concerns in 2019. People want to stop drugs and criminals at the Border. Want Border Security! Tell the Dems to do the inevitable now rather than later. The wait is costly and dangerous!
The number of employed Americans has now set a 14th record under President Trump. Over the year average hourly earnings have increased by 84 cents or 3.2%. Participation Rate hits Trump-Era High. CNS NEWS. And we will do even better with new trade deals and all else!
Jobs up big plus 312000. Record number working. Manufacturing best in 20 years (Previous administration said this could not happen). Hispanic unemployment lowest ever. Dow plus 747 (for day). @DRUDGE_REPORT
V.P. Mike Pence and team just left the White House. Briefed me on their meeting with the Schumer/Pelosi representatives. Not much headway made today. Second meeting set for tomorrow. After so many decades must finally and permanently fix the problems on the Southern Border!
Drug makers and companies are not living up to their commitments on pricing. Not being fair to the consumer or to our Country!
Former @NYTimes editor Jill Abramson rips paper's unmistakably anti-Trump bias.Ms. Abramson is 100% correct. Horrible and totally dishonest reporting on almost everything they write. Hence the term Fake News Enemy of the People and Opposition Party!
Great Tweet today by Tyler Q. Houlton @SpoxDHS on the #FakeNews being put out by @CNN a proud member of the Opposition Party. @TSA is doing a great job!
The Democrats want Billions of Dollars for Foreign Aid but they dont want to spend a small fraction of that number on properly securing our Border. Figure that one out!
We are working hard at the Border but we need a WALL! In 2018 1.7 million pounds of narcotics seized 17000 adults arrested with criminal records and 6000 gang members including MS-13 apprehended. A big Human Trafficking problem.
I dont care that most of the workers not getting paid are Democrats I want to stop the Shutdown as soon as we are in agreement on Strong Border Security! I am in the White House ready to go where are the Dems?
Many people currently a part of my opposition including President Obama the Dems have had campaign violations in some cases for very large sums of money. These are civil cases. They paid a fine settled. While no big deal I did not commit a campaign violation!
The Democrats could solve the Shutdown problem in a very short period of time. All they have to do is approve REAL Border Security (including a Wall) something which everyone other than drug dealers human traffickers and criminals want very badly! This would be so easy to do!
Great support coming from all sides for Border Security (including Wall) on our very dangerous Southern Border. Teams negotiating this weekend! Washington Post and NBC reporting of events including Fake sources has been very inaccurate (to put it mildly)!
Thank you to Kanye West for your nice words. Criminal Justice Reform is now law - passed in a very bipartisan way!
Great new book by Dr. Robert Jeffress Choosing the Extraordinary Life. Get it and enjoy! @LouDobbs
The story in the New York Times regarding Jim Webb being considered as the next Secretary of Defense is FAKE NEWS. Im sure he is a fine man but I dont know Jim and never met him. Patrick Shanahan who is Acting Secretary of Defense is doing a great job!
Job growth surges by 312000 in December 
GREAT JOBS NUMBERS JUST ANNOUNCED!
How do you impeach a president who has won perhaps the greatest election of all time done nothing wrong (no Collusion with Russia it was the Dems that Colluded) had the most successful first two years of any president and is the most popular Republican in party history 93%?
As I have stated many times if the Democrats take over the House or Senate there will be disruption to the Financial Markets. We won the Senate they won the House. Things will settle down. They only want to impeach me because they know they cant win in 2020 too much success!
....President Trump deserves a lot of credit but again you have the anti-Trump people who are not going to give him a lot of credit.
Michael Pillsbury interviewed by @cvpayne: They have the motive of making the President look bad  instead of President Trump being portrayed as a HERO. The first President to take China on its 20 years overdue....
The RNC has a great Chairwoman in Ronna McDaniel and the @GOP has never been stronger. We achieved historic wins with her help last year! #MAGA
The United States Treasury has taken in MANY billions of dollars from the Tariffs we are charging China and other countries that have not treated us fairly. In the meantime we are doing well in various Trade Negotiations currently going on. At some point this had to be done!
The Shutdown is only because of the 2020 Presidential Election. The Democrats know they cant win based on all of the achievements of Trump so they are going all out on the desperately needed Wall and Border Security - and Presidential Harassment. For them strictly politics!
MAGA list: 205 historic results help Trump make case for 2020 re-election 
Sadly there can be no REAL Border Security without the Wall!
...I remain ready and willing to work with Democrats to pass a bill that secures our borders supports the agents and officers on the ground and keeps America Safe. Lets get it done!
Important meeting today on Border Security with Republican and Democrat Leaders in Congress. Both parties must work together to pass a Funding Bill that protects this Nation and its people  this is the first and most important duty of government...
Mexico is paying for the Wall through the new USMCA Trade Deal. Much of the Wall has already been fully renovated or built. We have done a lot of work. $5.6 Billion Dollars that House has approved is very little in comparison to the benefits of National Security. Quick payback!
Here we go with Mitt Romney but so fast! Question will be is he a Flake? I hope not. Would much prefer that Mitt focus on Border Security and so many other things where he can be helpful. I won big and he didnt. He should be happy for all Republicans. Be a TEAM player WIN!
For FAR TOO LONG Senate Democrats have been Obstructing more than 350 Nominations. These great Americans left their jobs to serve our Country but cant because Dems are blocking them some for two years-historic record. Passed committees but Schumer putting them on hold. Bad!
Do you think its just luck that gas prices are so low and falling? Low gas prices are like another Tax Cut!
Kim Jong Un says North Korea will not make or test nuclear weapons or give them to others - he is ready to meet President Trump anytime. PBS News Hour. I also look forward to meeting with Chairman Kim who realizes so well that North Korea possesses great economic potential!
Washington Examiner - MAGA list: 205 historic results help Trump make case for 2020 re-election. True!
Gas prices are low and expected to go down this year. This would be good!
Border Security and the Wall thing and Shutdown is not where Nancy Pelosi wanted to start her tenure as Speaker! Lets make a deal?
Congratulations to President @JairBolsonaro who just made a great inauguration speech - the U.S.A. is with you!
One thing has now been proven. The Democrats do not care about Open Borders and all of the crime and drugs that Open Borders bring!
General McChrystal got fired like a dog by Obama. Last assignment a total bust. Known for big dumb mouth. Hillary lover! 
The Democrats much as I suspected have allocated no money for a new Wall. So imaginative! The problem is without a Wall there can be no real Border Security - and our Country must finally have a Strong and Secure Southern Border!
Happy New Year!
HAPPY NEW YEAR TO EVERYONE INCLUDING THE HATERS AND THE FAKE NEWS MEDIA! 2019 WILL BE A FANTASTIC YEAR FOR THOSE NOT SUFFERING FROM TRUMP DERANGEMENT SYNDROME. JUST CALM DOWN AND ENJOY THE RIDE GREAT THINGS ARE HAPPENING FOR OUR COUNTRY!
Dr. Sebastian Gorka a very good and talented guy has a great new book just out Why We Fight. Lots of insight - Enjoy!
...Remember this. Throughout the ages some things NEVER get better and NEVER change. You have Walls and you have Wheels. It was ALWAYS that way and it will ALWAYS be that way! Please explain to the Democrats that there can NEVER be a replacement for a good old fashioned WALL!
The Democrats will probably submit a Bill being cute as always which gives everything away but gives NOTHING to Border Security namely the Wall. You see without the Wall there can be no Border Security - the Tech stuff is just by comparison meaningless bells whistles...
MEXICO IS PAYING FOR THE WALL through the many billions of dollars a year that the U.S.A. is saving through the new Trade Deal the USMCA that will replace the horrendous NAFTA Trade Deal which has so badly hurt our Country. Mexico Canada will also thrive - good for all!
HAPPY NEW YEAR! 
Heads of countries are calling wanting to know why Senator Schumer is not approving their otherwise approved Ambassadors!? Likewise in Government lawyers and others are being delayed at a record pace! 360 great and hardworking people are waiting for approval from....
....Senator Schumer more than a year longer than any other Administration in history. These are people who have been approved by committees and all others yet Schumer continues to hold them back from serving their Country! Very Unfair!
Its incredible how Democrats can all use their ridiculous sound bite and say that a Wall doesnt work. It does and properly built almost 100%! They say its old technology - but so is the wheel. They now say it is immoral- but it is far more immoral for people to be dying!
Im in the Oval Office. Democrats come back from vacation now and give us the votes necessary for Border Security including the Wall. You voted yes in 2006 and 2013. One more yes but with me in office Ill get it built and Fast!
Im in the Oval Office. Democrats come back from vacation now and give us the votes necessary for Border Security including the Wall. You voted yes in 2006 and 3013. One more yes but with me in office Ill get it built and Fast!
I am the only person in America who could say that Im bringing our great troops back home with victory and get BAD press. It is Fake News and Pundits who have FAILED for years that are doing the complaining. If I stayed in Endless Wars forever they would still be unhappy!
I campaigned on Border Security which you cannot have without a strong and powerful Wall. Our Southern Border has long been an Open Wound where drugs criminals (including human traffickers) and illegals would pour into our Country. Dems should get back here an fix now!
.....Except the results are FAR BETTER than I ever said they were going to be! I campaigned against the NEVER ENDING WARS remember!
...I campaigned on getting out of Syria and other places. Now when I start getting out the Fake News Media or some failed Generals who were unable to do the job before I arrived like to complain about me my tactics which are working. Just doing what I said I was going to do!
If anybody but Donald Trump did what I did in Syria which was an ISIS loaded mess when I became President they would be a national hero. ISIS is mostly gone were slowly sending our troops back home to be with their families while at the same time fighting ISIS remnants......
An all concrete Wall was NEVER ABANDONED as has been reported by the media. Some areas will be all concrete but the experts at Border Patrol prefer a Wall that is see through (thereby making it possible to see what is happening on both sides). Makes sense to me!
President and Mrs. Obama built/has a ten foot Wall around their D.C. mansion/compound. I agree totally necessary for their safety and security. The U.S. needs the same thing slightly larger version!
Great work by my Administration over the holidays to save Coast Guard pay during this #SchumerShutdown. No thanks to the Democrats who left town and are not concerned about the safety and security of Americans!
Veterans on President Trumps handling of Border Security - 62% Approval Rating. On being a strong leader - 59%. AP Poll. Thank you!
It turns out to be true now that the Department of Justice and the FBI under President Obama rigged the investigation for Hillary and really turned the screws on Trump and now it looks like in a corrupt illegal way. The facts are out now. Whole Hoax exposed. @JesseBWatters
Absolutely nothing (on Russian Collusion). Kimberley Strassel The Wall Street Journal. The Russian Collusion fabrication is the greatest Hoax in the history of American politics. The only Russian Collusion was with Hillary and the Democrats!
2018 is being called THE YEAR OF THE WORKER by Steve Moore co-author of Trumponomics. It was indeed a great year for the American Worker with the best job market in 50 years and the lowest unemployment rate ever for blacks and Hispanics and all workers. Big wage gains.
For those that naively ask why didnt the Republicans get approval to build the Wall over the last year it is because IN THE SENATE WE NEED 10 DEMOCRAT VOTES and they will gives us NONE for Border Security! Now we have to do it the hard way with a Shutdown. Too bad! @FoxNews
...children in question were very sick before they were given over to Border Patrol. The father of the young girl said it was not their fault he hadnt given her water in days. Border Patrol needs the Wall and it will all end. They are working so hard getting so little credit!
Any deaths of children or others at the Border are strictly the fault of the Democrats and their pathetic immigration policies that allow people to make the long trek thinking they can enter our country illegally. They cant. If we had a Wall they wouldnt even try! The two.....
Just had a long and very good call with President Xi of China. Deal is moving along very well. If made it will be very comprehensive covering all subjects areas and points of dispute. Big progress being made!
I am in the White House waiting for the Democrats to come on over and make a deal on Border Security. From what I hear they are spending so much time on Presidential Harassment that they have little time left for things like stopping crime and our military!
The Mueller Angry Democrats recently deleted approximately 19000 Text messages between FBI Agent Lisa Page and her lover Agent Peter S. These Texts were asked for and INVALUABLE to the truth of the Witch Hunt Hoax. This is a total Obstruction of Justice. All Texts Demanded!
Thank you to Sean Parnell for the nice comments on @foxandfriends about the troops wonderful reaction to Melania and I in Iraq and Germany. Great things are happening!
.....Honduras Guatemala and El Salvador are doing nothing for the United States but taking our money. Word is that a new Caravan is forming in Honduras and they are doing nothing about it. We will be cutting off all aid to these 3 countries - taking advantage of U.S. for years!
.....close the Southern Border. Bring our car industry back into the United States where it belongs. Go back to pre-NAFTA before so many of our companies and jobs were so foolishly sent to Mexico. Either we build (finish) the Wall or we close the Border......
....The United States looses soooo much money on Trade with Mexico under NAFTA over 75 Billion Dollars a year (not including Drug Money which would be many times that amount) that I would consider closing the Southern Border a profit making operation. We build a Wall or.....
We will be forced to close the Southern Border entirely if the Obstructionist Democrats do not give us the money to finish the Wall also change the ridiculous immigration laws that our Country is saddled with. Hard to believe there was a Congress President who would approve!
CNN others within the Fake News Universe were going wild about my signing MAGA hats for our military in Iraq and Germany. If these brave young people ask me to sign their hat I will sign. Can you imagine my saying NO? We brought or gave NO hats as the Fake News first reported!
This isnt about the Wall everybody knows that a Wall will work perfectly (In Israel the Wall works 99.9%). This is only about the Dems not letting Donald Trump the Republicans have a win. They may have the 10 Senate votes but we have the issue Border Security. 2020!
Brad Blakeman: The American people understand that we have been played by foreign actors who would rather have us fight their battles for them. The President says look this is your neighborhood youve got to stand up to protect yourselves. Dont always look to America.
Brad Blakeman: The American people understand that we have been played by foreign actors who would rather have us fight their battles for them. The Pesident says look this is your neighborhood youve got to stand up to protect yourselves. Dont always look to America.
I totally agree! 
There is right now a full scale manhunt going on in California for an illegal immigrant accused of shooting and killing a police officer during a traffic stop. Time to get tough on Border Security. Build the Wall!
Border Patrol Agents want the Wall. Democrats say they dont want the Wall (even though they know it is really needed) and they dont want ICE. They dont have much to campaign on do they? An Open Southern Border and the large scale crime that comes with such stupidity!
The reason the DACA for Wall deal didnt get done was that a ridiculous court decision from the 9th Circuit allowed DACA to remain thereby setting up a Supreme Court case. After ruling Dems dropped deal - and thats where we are today Democrat obstruction of the needed Wall.
The Democrats OBSTRUCTION of the desperately needed Wall where they almost all recently agreed it should be built is exceeded only by their OBSTRUCTION of 350 great people wanting expecting to come into Government after being delayed for more than two years a U.S. record!
The reason the DACA for Wall deal didnt get done was that a ridiculous court decision from the 9th Circuit allowed DACA to remain thereby setting up a Supteme Court case. After ruling Dems dropped deal - and thats where we are today Democrat obstruction of the needed Wall.
Have the Democrats finally realized that we desperately need Border Security and a Wall on the Southern Border. Need to stop Drugs Human TraffickingGang Members Criminals from coming into our Country. Do the Dems realize that most of the people not getting paid are Democrats?
Just returned from visiting our troops in Iraq and Germany. One thing is certain we have incredible people representing our Country - people that know how to win!
.@FLOTUS Melania and I were honored to visit our incredible troops at Al Asad Air Base in Iraq. GOD BLESS THE U.S.A.! 
I hope everyone even the Fake News Media is having a great Christmas! Our Country is doing very well. We are securing our Borders making great new Trade Deals and bringing our Troops Back Home. We are finally putting America First. MERRY CHRISTMAS! #MAGA
Merry Christmas!
I am in the Oval Office just gave out a 115 mile long contract for another large section of the Wall in Texas. We are already building and renovating many miles of Wall some complete. Democrats must end Shutdown and finish funding. Billions of Dollars lives will be saved!
Christmas Eve briefing with my team working on North Korea  Progress being made. Looking forward to my next summit with Chairman Kim! 
I am all alone (poor me) in the White House waiting for the Democrats to come back and make a deal on desperately needed Border Security. At some point the Democrats not wanting to make a deal will cost our Country more money than the Border Wall we are all talking about. Crazy!
Saudi Arabia has now agreed to spend the necessary money needed to help rebuild Syria instead of the United States. See? Isnt it nice when immensely wealthy countries help rebuild their neighbors rather than a Great Country the U.S. that is 5000 miles away. Thanks to Saudi A!
The Wall is different than the 25 Billion Dollars in Border Security. The complete Wall will be built with the Shutdown money plus funds already in hand. The reporting has been inaccurate on the point. The problem is without the Wall much of the rest of Dollars are wasted!
I never lashed out at the Acting Attorney General of the U.S. a man for whom I have great respect. This is a made up story one of many by the Fake News Media!
The only problem our economy has is the Fed. They dont have a feel for the Market they dont understand necessary Trade Wars or Strong Dollars or even Democrat Shutdowns over Borders. The Fed is like a powerful golfer who cant score because he has no touch - he cant putt!
AMERICA IS RESPECTED AGAIN!
For all of the sympathizers out there of Brett McGurk remember he was the Obama appointee who was responsible for loading up airplanes with 1.8 Billion Dollars in CASH sending it to Iran as part of the horrific Iran Nuclear Deal (now terminated) approved by Little Bob Corker.
....We are substantially subsidizing the Militaries of many VERY rich countries all over the world while at the same time these countries take total advantage of the U.S. and our TAXPAYERS on Trade. General Mattis did not see this as a problem. I DO and it is being fixed!
To those few Senators who think I dont like or appreciate being allied with other countries they are wrong I DO. What I dont like however is when many of these same countries take advantage of their friendship with the United States both in Military Protection and Trade...
Virtually every Democrat we are dealing with today strongly supported a Border Wall or Fence. It was only when I made it an important part of my campaign because people and drugs were pouring into our Country unchecked that they turned against it. Desperately needed!
President @RT_Erdogan of Turkey has very strongly informed me that he will eradicate whatever is left of ISIS in Syria....and he is a man who can do it plus Turkey is right next door. Our troops are coming home!
The President has been remarkable. I do not doubt that he will thrive in this new environment and he will be a constant reminder of what populism is. Thank you to Tammy Bruce and Steve Hilton. Presidential Harassment has been with me from the beginning!
The most important way to stop gangs drugs human trafficking and massive crime is at our Southern Border. We need Border Security and as EVERYONE knows you cant have Border Security without a Wall. The Drones Technology are just bells and whistles. Safety for America!
Mitch McConnell just told a group of people and me that he has been in the U.S. Senate for 32 years and the last two have been by far the best most productive of his career. Tax Regulation Cuts VA Choice Farm Bill Criminal Justice Reform Judgeships much more. Great!
It should not be the job of America to replace regimes around the world. This is what President Trump recognized in Iraq that it was the biggest foreign policy disaster of the last several decades and hes right...The generals still dont get the mistake. @RandPaul
Thanks @RandPaul I am very proud of the President. This is exactly what he promised and I think the people agree with him. Weve been at war too long and in too many places...spent several trillion dollars on these wars everywhere. Hes different...thats why he got elected.
.....Bob Corker was responsible for giving us the horrible Iran Nuclear Deal which I ended yet he badmouths me for wanting to bring our young people safely back home. Bob wanted to run and asked for my endorsement. I said NO and the game was over. #MAGA I LOVE TENNESSEE!
Senator Bob Corker just stated that Im so priveledged to serve in the Senate for twelve years and thats what I told the people of our state thats what Id do serve for two terms. But that is Not True - wanted to run but poll numbers TANKED when I wouldnt endorse him.....
We signed two pieces of major legislation this week Criminal Justice Reform and the Farm Bill. These are two Big Deals but all the Fake News Media wants to talk about is the mistake of bringing our young people back home from the Never Ending Wars. It all began 19 years ago!
Unthinkable devastation from the tsunami disaster in Indonesia. More than two hundred dead and nearly a thousand injured or unaccounted for. We are praying for recovery and healing. America is with you!
I just had a long and productive call with President @RT_Erdogan of Turkey. We discussed ISIS our mutual involvement in Syria the slow highly coordinated pullout of U.S. troops from the area. After many years they are coming home. We also discussed heavily expanded Trade.
I am pleased to announce that our very talented Deputy Secretary of Defense Patrick Shanahan will assume the title of Acting Secretary of Defense starting January 1 2019. Patrick has a long list of accomplishments while serving as Deputy previously Boeing. He will be great!
The only way to stop drugs gangs human trafficking criminal elements and much else from coming into our Country is with a Wall or Barrier. Drones and all of the rest are wonderful and lots of fun but it is only a good old fashioned Wall that works!
When President Obama ingloriously fired Jim Mattis I gave him a second chance. Some thought I shouldnt I thought I should. Interesting relationship-but I also gave all of the resources that he never really had. Allies are very important-but not when they take advantage of U.S.
If anybody but your favorite President Donald J. Trump announced that after decimating ISIS in Syria we were going to bring our troops back home (happy healthy) that person would be the most popular hero in America. With me hit hard instead by the Fake News Media. Crazy!
Brett McGurk who I do not know was appointed by President Obama in 2015. Was supposed to leave in February but he just resigned prior to leaving. Grandstander? The Fake News is making such a big deal about this nothing event!
I will not be going to Florida because of the Shutdown - Staying in the White House! #MAGA
Senate adjourns until December 27th.
I won an election said to be one of the greatest of all time based on getting out of endless costly foreign wars also based on Strong Borders which will keep our Country safe. We fight for the borders of other countries but we wont fight for the borders of our own!
The crisis of illegal activity at our Southern Border is real and will not stop until we build a great Steel Barrier or Wall. Let work begin!
Will be having lunch in White House residence with large group concerning Border Security.
....going to be there for three months and that was seven years ago - we never left. When I became President ISIS was going wild. Now ISIS is largely defeated and other local countries including Turkey should be able to easily take care of whatever remains. Were coming home!
I am in the White House working hard. News reports concerning the Shutdown and Syria are mostly FAKE. We are negotiating with the Democrats on desperately needed Border Security (Gangs Drugs Human Trafficking more) but it could be a long stay. On Syria we were originally...
OUR GREAT COUNTRY MUST HAVE BORDER SECURITY! 
Wishing Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg a full and speedy recovery!
Some of the many Bills that I am signing in the Oval Office right now. Cancelled my trip on Air Force One to Florida while we wait to see if the Democrats will help us to protect Americas Southern Border! 
A design of our Steel Slat Barrier which is totally effective while at the same time beautiful! 
Today it was my honor to sign into law H.R. 7213 the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 2018. The Act redesignates the @DHSgov Domestic Nuclear Detection Office as the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office. Read more: 
Today it was my great honor to sign the #FirstStepAct - a monumental bi-partisan win for the American people! 
Ive done more damage to ISIS than all recent presidents....not even close!
The Democrats now own the shutdown!
General Anthony Tata author Dark Winter. I think the President is making the exact right move in Syria. All the geniuses who are protesting the withdrawal of troops from Syria are the same geniuses who cooked the books on ISIS intelligence and gave rise to ISIS.
There has never been a president who has been tougher (but fair) on China or Russia - Never just look at the facts. The Fake News tries so hard to paint the opposite picture.
Thank you @SteveDaines for being willing to go with the so-called nuclear option in order to win on DESPERATELY NEEDED Border Security! Have my total support.
Mitch use the Nuclear Option and get it done! Our Country is counting on you!
Even President Ronald Reagan tried for 8 years to build a Border Wall or Fence and was unable to do so. Others also have tried. We will get it done one way or the other!
Shutdown today if Democrats do not vote for Border Security!
House Republican Vote 217-185.
The Democrats whose votes we need in the Senate will probably vote against Border Security and the Wall even though they know it is DESPERATELY NEEDED. If the Dems vote no there will be a shutdown that will last for a very long time. People dont want Open Borders and Crime!
No matter what happens today in the Senate Republican House Members should be very proud of themselves. They flew back to Washington from all parts of the World in order to vote for Border Security and the Wall. Not one Democrat voted yes and we won big. I am very proud of you!
.....on a Border is only effective in conjunction with a Wall. Properly designed and built Walls work and the Democrats are lying when they say they dont. In Israel the Wall is 99.9% successful. Will not be any different on our Southern Border! Hundreds of $Billions saved!
The Democrats are trying to belittle the concept of a Wall calling it old fashioned. The fact is there is nothing elses that will work and that has been true for thousands of years. Its like the wheel there is nothing better. I know tech better than anyone technology.....
Senator Mitch McConnell should fight for the Wall and Border Security as hard as he fought for anything. He will need Democrat votes but as shown in the House good things happen. If enough Dems dont vote it will be a Democrat Shutdown! House Republicans were great yesterday!
Soon to be Speaker Nancy Pelosi said last week live from the Oval Office that the Republicans didnt have the votes for Border Security. Today the House Republicans voted and won 217-185. Nancy does not have to apologize. All I want is GREAT BORDER SECURITY!
Thank you to our GREAT Republican Members of Congress for your VOTE to fund Border Security and the Wall. The final numbers were 217-185 and many have said that the enthusiasm was greater than they have ever seen before. So proud of you all. Now on to the Senate!
General Jim Mattis will be retiring with distinction at the end of February after having served my Administration as Secretary of Defense for the past two years. During Jims tenure tremendous progress has been made especially with respect to the purchase of new fighting....
....equipment. General Mattis was a great help to me in getting allies and other countries to pay their share of military obligations. A new Secretary of Defense will be named shortly. I greatly thank Jim for his service!
Democrats it is time to come together and put the SAFETY of the AMERICAN PEOPLE before POLITICS. Border security must become a #1 priority! 
Farm Bill signing in 15 minutes! #Emmys #TBT 
So hard to believe that Lindsey Graham would be against saving soldier lives billions of $$$. Why are we fighting for our enemy Syria by staying killing ISIS for them Russia Iran other locals? Time to focus on our Country bring our youth back home where they belong!
Congress just passed the Criminal Justice Reform Bill known as the #FirstStepAct. Congratulations! This is a great bi-partisan achievement for everybody. When both parties work together we can keep our Country safer. A wonderful thing for the U.S.A.!!
When I begrudgingly signed the Omnibus Bill I was promised the Wall and Border Security by leadership. Would be done by end of year (NOW). It didnt happen! We foolishly fight for Border Security for other countries - but not for our beloved U.S.A. Not good!
With so much talk about the Wall people are losing sight of the great job being done on our Southern Border by Border Patrol ICE and our great Military. Remember the Caravans? Well they didnt get through and none are forming or on their way. Border is tight. Fake News silent!
The Democrats who know Steel Slats (Wall) are necessary for Border Security are putting politics over Country. What they are just beginning to realize is that I will not sign any of their legislation including infrastructure unless it has perfect Border Security. U.S.A. WINS!
....Russia Iran Syria many others are not happy about the U.S. leaving despite what the Fake News says because now they will have to fight ISIS and others who they hate without us. I am building by far the most powerful military in the world. ISIS hits us they are doomed!
Does the USA want to be the Policeman of the Middle East getting NOTHING but spending precious lives and trillions of dollars protecting others who in almost all cases do not appreciate what we are doing? Do we want to be there forever? Time for others to finally fight.....
Getting out of Syria was no surprise. Ive been campaigning on it for years and six months ago when I very publicly wanted to do it I agreed to stay longer. Russia Iran Syria others are the local enemy of ISIS. We were doing there work. Time to come home rebuild. #MAGA
Im proud of the President today to hear that he is declaring victory in Syria. Senator Rand Paul. I couldnt agree more with the presidents decision. By definition this is the opposite of an Obama decision. Senator Mike Lee
Trump gets no credit for what hes done in the Middle East. @IngrahamAngle So true thank you Laura!
Col. Jim Carafano on @IngrahamAngle Trump has made the Middle East a better place. When Trump came into office ISIS was running amuck in the Middle East. Over a million refugees poured into Western Europe - none of that is happening today. Thats all due to Trump.
After historic victories against ISIS its time to bring our great young people home! 
....In any event it goes on and on the new AG who is now being replaced by yet another AG (who openly campaigned on a GET TRUMP agenda) does little else but rant rave politic against me. Will never be treated fairly by these people - a total double standard of justice.
...sleazebag AG Eric Schneiderman who has since resigned over horrific women abuse when I wanted to close the Foundation so as not to be in conflict with politics. Shady Eric was head of New Yorkers for Clinton and refused to even look at the corrupt Clinton Foundation......
The Trump Foundation has done great work and given away lots of money both mine and others to great charities over the years - with me taking NO fees rent salaries etc. Now as usual I am getting slammed by Cuomo and the Dems in a long running civil lawsuit started by.....
We have defeated ISIS in Syria my only reason for being there during the Trump Presidency.
Mexico is paying (indirectly) for the Wall through the new USMCA the replacement for NAFTA! Far more money coming to the U.S. Because of the tremendous dangers at the Border including large scale criminal and drug inflow the United States Military will build the Wall!
In our Country so much money has been poured down the drain for so many years but when it comes to Border Security and the Military the Democrats fight to the death. We won on the Military which is being completely rebuilt. One way or the other we will win on the Wall!
In our Country so much money has been poured down the drain for so many years but the Democrats fight us like cats and dogs when it comes to spending on Boarder Security (including a Wall) and the Military. We won on the Military it is being completely rebuilt. We will win...
....This will keep our communities safer and provide hope and a second chance to those who earn it. In addition to everything else billions of dollars will be saved. I look forward to signing this into law!
America is the greatest Country in the world and my job is to fight for ALL citizens even those who have made mistakes. Congratulations to the Senate on the bi-partisan passing of a historic Criminal Justice Reform Bill....
The Democrats are saying loud and clear that they do not want to build a Concrete Wall - but we are not building a Concrete Wall we are building artistically designed steel slats so that you can easily see through it....
....It will be beautiful and at the same time give our Country the security that our citizens deserve. It will go up fast and save us BILLIONS of dollars a month once completed!
Congratulations to @MarthaMcSally on her appointment by Governor @DougDucey as the Great new Senator from Arizona - I have no doubt she will do a fantastic job!
President Donald J. Trumps Commission on School Safety examined ways to make our schools safe for all students and teachers. Read more: 
Michael Isikoff was the first to report Dossier allegations and now seriously doubts the Dossier claims. The whole Russian Collusion thing was a HOAX but who is going to restore the good name of so many people whose reputations have been destroyed?
....WILL NEVER BE PROVEN AND ARE LIKELY FALSE. Thank you to Michael Isikoff Yahoo for honesty. What this means is that the FISA WARRANTS and the whole Russian Witch Hunt is a Fraud and a Hoax which should be ended immediately. Also it was paid for by Crooked Hillary DNC!
Russia Dossier reporter now doubts dopey Christopher Steeles claims! When you get into the details of the Steele Dossier the specific allegations we have not seen the evidence to support them. Theres good grounds to think that some of the more sensational allegations.....
Illegal immigration costs the United States more than 200 Billion Dollars a year. How was this allowed to happen?
Facebook Twitter and Google are so biased toward the Dems it is ridiculous! Twitter in fact has made it much more difficult for people to join @realDonaldTrump. They have removed many names greatly slowed the level and speed of increase. They have acknowledged-done NOTHING!
I hope the people over at the Fed will read todays Wall Street Journal Editorial before they make yet another mistake. Also dont let the market become any more illiquid than it already is. Stop with the 50 Bs. Feel the market dont just go by meaningless numbers. Good luck!
Good luck today in court to General Michael Flynn. Will be interesting to see what he has to say despite tremendous pressure being put on him about Russian Collusion in our great and obviously highly successful political campaign. There was no Collusion!
Biggest outrage yet in the long winding and highly conflicted Mueller Witch Hunt is the fact that 19000 demanded Text messages between Peter Strzok and his FBI lover Lisa Page were purposely illegally deleted. Would have explained whole Hoax which is now under protest!
Today I am making good on my promise to defend our Farmers Ranchers from unjustified trade retaliation by foreign nations. I have authorized Secretary Perdue to implement the 2nd round of Market Facilitation Payments. Our economy is stronger than everwe stand with our Farmers!
Anytime you hear a Democrat saying that you can have good Border Security without a Wall write them off as just another politician following the party line. Time for us to save billions of dollars a year and have at the same time far greater safety and control!
It is incredible that with a very strong dollar and virtually no inflation the outside world blowing up around us Paris is burning and China way down the Fed is even considering yet another interest rate hike. Take the Victory!
Anytime you hear a Democrat saying that you can have good Boarder Security without a Wall write them off as just another politician following the party line. Time for us to save billions of dollars a year and have at the same time far greater safety and control!
The DEDUCTIBLE which comes with ObamaCare is so high that it is practically not even useable! Hurts families badly. We have a chance working with the Democrats to deliver great HealthCare! A confirming Supreme Court Decision will lead to GREAT HealthCare results for Americans!
....The Russian Witch Hunt Hoax started as the insurance policy long before I even got elected is very bad for our Country. They are Entrapping people for misstatements lies or unrelated things that took place many years ago. Nothing to do with Collusion. A Democrat Scam!
....a persecution of the President. Daniel Henninger The Wall Street Journal. Thank you people are starting to see and understand what this Witch Hunt is all about. Jeff Sessions should be ashamed of himself for allowing this total HOAX to get started in the first place!
It looks here as though General Flynns defenses are incidental to something larger which is for the prosecution to figure out if it can find a path to Donald Trump without quite knowing what that crime might be. It stops looking like prosecution and more looking like......
Required television watching is last weeks @marthamaccallum interview with the wonderful wife of Rod Blagojevich and the @trish_regan interview with a Jerome Corsi. If that doesnt tell you something about what has been going on in our Country nothing will. Very sad!
Required television watching is last weeks @marthamaccallum interview with the wonderful wife of @RodBlagojevich and the @trishregan interview with a Jerome Corsi. If that doesnt tell you something about what has been going on in our Country nothing will. Very sad!
The Democrats policy of Child Seperation on the Border during the Obama Administration was far worse than the way we handle it now. Remember the 2014 picture of children in cages - the Obama years. However if you dont separate FAR more people will come. Smugglers use the kids!
Judge Ken Starr former Solicitor Generel Independent Counsel just stated that after two years there is no evidence or proof of collusion further that there is no evidence that there was a campaign financing violation involving the President. Thank you Judge. @FoxNews
At the request of many I will be reviewing the case of a U.S. Military hero Major Matt Golsteyn who is charged with murder. He could face the death penalty from our own government after he admitted to killing a Terrorist bomb maker while overseas. @PeteHegseth @FoxNews
Remember Michael Cohen only became a Rat after the FBI did something which was absolutely unthinkable unheard of until the Witch Hunt was illegally started. They BROKE INTO AN ATTORNEYS OFFICE! Why didnt they break into the DNC to get the Server or Crookeds office?
So where are all the missing Text messages between fired FBI agents Peter S and the lovely Lisa Page his lover. Just reported that they have been erased and wiped clean. What an outrage as the totally compromised and conflicted Witch Hunt moves ever so slowly forward. Want them!
A REAL scandal is the one sided coverage hour by hour of networks like NBC Democrat spin machines like Saturday Night Live. It is all nothing less than unfair news coverage and Dem commercials. Should be tested in courts cant be legal? Only defame belittle! Collusion?
Wow 19000 Texts between Lisa Page and her lover Peter S of the FBI in charge of the Russia Hoax were just reported as being wiped clean and gone. Such a big story that will never be covered by the Fake News. Witch Hunt!
The pathetic and dishonest Weekly Standard run by failed prognosticator Bill Kristol (who like many others never had a clue) is flat broke and out of business. Too bad. May it rest in peace!
Never in the history of our Country has the press been more dishonest than it is today. Stories that should be good are bad. Stories that should be bad are horrible. Many stories like with the REAL story on Russia Clinton the DNC seldom get reported. Too bad!
.......The Trump Administration will be announcing the new Secretary of the Interior next week.
Secretary of the Interior @RyanZinke will be leaving the Administration at the end of the year after having served for a period of almost two years. Ryan has accomplished much during his tenure and I want to thank him for his service to our Nation.......
Wow but not surprisingly ObamaCare was just ruled UNCONSTITUTIONAL by a highly respected judge in Texas. Great news for America!
As I predicted all along Obamacare has been struck down as an UNCONSTITUTIONAL disaster! Now Congress must pass a STRONG law that provides GREAT healthcare and protects pre-existing conditions. Mitch and Nancy get it done!
For the record there were MANY people who wanted to be the White House Chief of Staff. Mick M will do a GREAT job!
....I look forward to working with him in this new capacity as we continue to MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! John will be staying until the end of the year. He is a GREAT PATRIOT and I want to personally thank him for his service!
I am pleased to announce that Mick Mulvaney Director of the Office of Management Budget will be named Acting White House Chief of Staff replacing General John Kelly who has served our Country with distinction. Mick has done an outstanding job while in the Administration....
Thank you to @tim_cook for agreeing to expand operations in the U.S. and thereby creating thousands of jobs! 
Many people have asked how we are doing in our negotiations with North Korea - I always reply by saying we are in no hurry there is wonderful potential for great economic success for that country....
....Kim Jong Un sees it better than anyone and will fully take advantage of it for his people. We are doing just fine!
China just announced that their economy is growing much slower than anticipated because of our Trade War with them. They have just suspended U.S. Tariff Hikes. U.S. is doing very well. China wants to make a big and very comprehensive deal. It could happen and rather soon!
China just announce the there economy is growing much slower than anticipated because of our Trade War with them. They have just suspended U.S. Tariff Hikes. U.S. is doing very well. China wants to make a big and very comprehensive deal. It could happen and rather soon!
Lets not do a shutdown Democrats - do whats right for the American People! 
Today it was my honor to welcome our Nations newly elected Governors to the @WhiteHouse! 
Happy 382nd Birthday @USNationalGuard. Our entire Nation is forever grateful for all you do 24/7/365. We love you! #Guard382 
Just did an interview with @HARRISFAULKNER on @FoxNews airing now (1pmE.) Enjoy!
....She will probably be given a pass despite their terrible ratings. Congratulations to @RichardGrenell our great Ambassador to Germany for having the courage to take this horrible issue on!
If it was a Conservative that said what crazed Mika Brzezinski stated on her show yesterday using a certain horrible term that person would be banned permanently from television....
WITCH HUNT!
They gave General Flynn a great deal because they were embarrassed by the way he was treated - the FBI said he didnt lie and they overrode the FBI. They want to scare everybody into making up stories that are not true by catching them in the smallest of misstatements. Sad!......
....guilty even on a civil basis. Those charges were just agreed to by him in order to embarrass the president and get a much reduced prison sentence which he did-including the fact that his family was temporarily let off the hook. As a lawyer Michael has great liability to me!
....guilty even on a civil bases. Those charges were just agreed to by him in order to embarrass the president and get a much reduced prison sentence which he did-including the fact that his family was temporarily let off the hook. As a lawyer Michael has great liability to me!
....stated that I did nothing wrong with respect to campaign finance laws if they even apply because this was not campaign finance. Cohen was guilty on many charges unrelated to me but he plead to two campaign charges which were not criminal and of which he probably was not...
I never directed Michael Cohen to break the law. He was a lawyer and he is supposed to know the law. It is called advice of counsel and a lawyer has great liability if a mistake is made. That is why they get paid. Despite that many campaign finance lawyers have strongly......
I often stated One way or the other Mexico is going to pay for the Wall. This has never changed. Our new deal with Mexico (and Canada) the USMCA is so much better than the old very costly anti-USA NAFTA deal that just by the money we save MEXICO IS PAYING FOR THE WALL!
.@FLOTUS Melania will be interviewed by @SeanHannity tonight on @FoxNews at 9:00pmE!
The Democrats and President Obama gave Iran 150 Billion Dollars and got nothing but they cant give 5 Billion Dollars for National Security and a Wall?
Another very bad terror attack in France. We are going to strengthen our borders even more. Chuck and Nancy must give us the votes to get additional Border Security!
Thanks to Leader McConnell for agreeing to bring a Senate vote on Criminal Justice this week! These historic changes will make communities SAFER and SAVE tremendous taxpayers dollars. It brings much needed hope to many families during the Holiday Season.
I dont care what you think of the President...it cannot bleed over to the FBI...Comey is confirming there is bias in the FBI... -Chris Swecker
James Comey just totally exposed his partisan stance by urging his fellow Democrats to take back the White House in 2020. In other words he is and has been a Democrat. Comey had no right heading the FBI at any time but especially after his mind exploded!
Fake News has it purposely wrong. Many over ten are vying for and wanting the White House Chief of Staff position. Why wouldnt someone want one of the truly great and meaningful jobs in Washington. Please report news correctly. Thank you!
Very productive conversations going on with China! Watch for some important announcements!
Great job by Michael Anton on @foxandfriends. A true National Security expert!
....People do not yet realize how much of the Wall including really effective renovation has already been built. If the Democrats do not give us the votes to secure our Country the Military will build the remaining sections of the Wall. They know how important it is!
.....I look forward to my meeting with Chuck Schumer Nancy Pelosi. In 2006 Democrats voted for a Wall and they were right to do so. Today they no longer want Border Security. They will fight it at all cost and Nancy must get votes for Speaker. But the Wall will get built...
....however for strictly political reasons and because they have been pulled so far left do NOT want Border Security. They want Open Borders for anyone to come in. This brings large scale crime and disease. Our Southern Border is now Secure and will remain that way.......
.....Ice Border Patrol and our Military have done a FANTASTIC job of securing our Southern Border. A Great Wall would be however a far easier less expensive solution. We have already built large new sections fully renovated others making them like new. The Democrats.....
Despite the large Caravans that WERE forming and heading to our Country people have not been able to get through our newly built Walls makeshift Walls Fences or Border Patrol Officers Military. They are now staying in Mexico or going back to their original countries.......
Former FBI Director James Comey under fire for his testimony acknowledging he knew that the Democrats paid for that phony Trump Dossier. @LouDobbs Details on Tuesday night.
James Comeys behind closed doors testimony reveals that there was not evidence of Campaign Collusion with Russia when he left the FBI. In other words the Witch Hunt is illegal and should never have been started!
....which it was not (but even if it was it is only a CIVIL CASE like Obamas - but it was done correctly by a lawyer and there would not even be a fine. Lawyers liability if he made a mistake not me). Cohen just trying to get his sentence reduced. WITCH HUNT!
Democrats cant find a Smocking Gun tying the Trump campaign to Russia after James Comeys testimony. No Smocking Gun...No Collusion. @FoxNews Thats because there was NO COLLUSION. So now the Dems go to a simple private transaction wrongly call it a campaign contribution...
I am in the process of interviewing some really great people for the position of White House Chief of Staff. Fake News has been saying with certainty it was Nick Ayers a spectacular person who will always be with our #MAGA agenda. I will be making a decision soon!
The Trump Administration has accomplished more than any other U.S. Administration in its first two (not even) years of existence we are having a great time doing it! All of this despite the Fake News Media which has gone totally out of its mind-truly the Enemy of the People!
Leakin James Comey must have set a record for who lied the most to Congress in one day. His Friday testimony was so untruthful! This whole deal is a Rigged Fraud headed up by dishonest people who would do anything so that I could not become President. They are now exposed!
On 245 occasions former FBI Director James Comey told House investigators he didnt know didnt recall or couldnt remember things when asked. Opened investigations on 4 Americans (not 2) - didnt know who signed off and didnt know Christopher Steele. All lies!
It was my honor to attend todays #ArmyNavyGame in Philadelphia. A GREAT game played all around by our HEROES. Congratulations @ArmyWP_Football on the win! 
Great honor to be headed to the Army-Navy game today. Will be there shortly landing now! 
....left and right he then woke up from his dream screaming that HE LIED. Next time I go to Vietnam I will ask the Dick to travel with me!
Watched Da Nang Dick Blumenthal on television spewing facts almost as accurate as his bravery in Vietnam (which he never saw). As the bullets whizzed by Da Nang Dicks head as he was saving soldiers....
Very sad day night in Paris. Maybe its time to end the ridiculous and extremely expensive Paris Agreement and return money back to the people in the form of lower taxes? The U.S. was way ahead of the curve on that and the only major country where emissions went down last year!
This is collusion illusion there is no smoking gun here. At this late date after all that we have gone through after millions have been spent we have no Russian Collusion. There is nothing impeachable here. @GeraldoRivera Time for the Witch Hunt to END!
I am pleased to announce my nomination of four-star General Mark Milley Chief of Staff of the United States Army  as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff replacing General Joe Dunford who will be retiring....
....I am thankful to both of these incredible men for their service to our Country! Date of transition to be determined.
AFTER TWO YEARS AND MILLIONS OF PAGES OF DOCUMENTS (and a cost of over $30000000) NO COLLUSION!
The idea of a European Military didnt work out too well in W.W. I or 2. But the U.S. was there for you and always will be. All we ask is that you pay your fair share of NATO. Germany is paying 1% while the U.S. pays 4.3% of a much larger GDP - to protect Europe. Fairness!
The Paris Agreement isnt working out so well for Paris. Protests and riots all over France. People do not want to pay large sums of money much to third world countries (that are questionably run) in order to maybe protect the environment. Chanting We Want Trump! Love France.
Totally clears the President. Thank you!
It is being reported that Leakin' James Comey was told by Department of Justice attorneys not to answer the most important questions. Total bias and corruption at the highest levels of previous Administration. Force him to answer the questions under oath!
Hopefully Mitch McConnell will ask for a VOTE on Criminal Justice Reform. It is extremely popular and has strong bipartisan support. It will also help a lot of people save taxpayer dollars and keep our communities safe. Go for it Mitch!
Mike Pompeo is doing a great job I am very proud of him. His predecessor Rex Tillerson didnt have the mental capacity needed. He was dumb as a rock and I couldnt get rid of him fast enough. He was lazy as hell. Now it is a whole new ballgame great spirit at State!
....and one of the most highly respected lawyers and legal minds in the Country he will be a great addition to our team. I look forward to having him join our very successful Administration!
I am pleased to announce that I will be nominating The Honorable William P. Barr for the position of Attorney General of the United States. As the former AG for George H.W. Bush....
I am pleased to announce that Heather Nauert Spokeswoman for the United States Department of State will be nominated to serve as United Nations Ambassador. I want to congratulate Heather and thank Ambassador Nikki Haley for her great service to our Country!
We will be doing a major Counter Report to the Mueller Report. This should never again be allowed to happen to a future President of the United States!
Today we honor those who perished 77 years ago at Pearl Harbor and we salute every veteran who served in World War II over the 4 years that followed that horrific attack. God Bless America! 
It has been incorrectly reported that Rudy Giuliani and others will not be doing a counter to the Mueller Report. That is Fake News. Already 87 pages done but obviously cannot complete until we see the final Witch Hunt Report.
China talks are going very well!
...the lying and leaking by the people doing the Report also Bruce Ohr (and his lovely wife Molly) Comey Brennan Clapper all of the many fired people of the FBI be listed in the Report? Will the corruption within the DNC Clinton Campaign be exposed?..And so much more!
....Foundation be listed at the top of the Report? Will the scathing document written about Lyin James Comey by the man in charge of the case Rod Rosenstein (who also signed the FISA Warrant) be a big part of the Report? Isnt Rod therefore totally conflicted? Will all of....
.....overturned 9-0 in the United States Supreme Court. Doing same thing to people now. Will all of the substantial many contributions made by the 17 Angry Democrats to the Campaign of Crooked Hillary be listed in top of Report. Will the people that worked for the Clinton....
....Will Robert Muellers big time conflicts of interest be listed at the top of his Republicans only Report. Will Andrew Weissmans horrible and vicious prosecutorial past be listed in the Report. He wrongly destroyed peoples lives took down great companies only to be........
Robert Mueller and Leakin Lyin James Comey are Best Friends just one of many Mueller Conflicts of Interest. And bye the way wasnt the woman in charge of prosecuting Jerome Corsi (who I do not know) in charge of legal at the corrupt Clinton Foundation? A total Witch Hunt...
Arizona together with our Military and Border Patrol is bracing for a massive surge at a NON-WALLED area. WE WILL NOT LET THEM THROUGH. Big danger. Nancy and Chuck must approve Boarder Security and the Wall!
FAKE NEWS - THE ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE!
Trish_Regan: Did the FBI follow protocol to obtain the FISA warrant? I dont think so. The Dossier was opposition research funded by opponents. Dont use Government resources to take down political foes. Weaponizing Government for gain. Is this really America? Witch Hunt!
Jerome Corsi: This is not justice this is not America. This is a political prosecution. The Special Prosecutor (Counsel) to get this plea deal demanded I lie and violate the law. Theyre the criminals. He is not alone. 17 Angry Dems. People forced to lie. Sad! @Trish_Regan
Statement from China: The teams of both sides are now having smooth communications and good cooperation with each other. We are full of confidence that an agreement can be reached within the next 90 days. I agree!
Does the Fake News Media ever mention the fact that Republicans with the very important help of my campaign Rallies WON THE UNITED STATES SENATE 53 to 47? All I hear is that the Open Border Dems won the House. Senate alone approves judges others. Big Republican Win!
My thoughts and prayers are with the @USMC crew members who were involved in a mid-air collision off the coast of Japan. Thank you to @USForcesJapan for their immediate response and rescue efforts. Whatever you need we are here for you. @IIIMEF
Without the phony Russia Witch Hunt and with all that we have accomplished in the last almost two years (Tax Regulation Cuts Judges Military Vets etc.) my approval rating would be at 75% rather than the 50% just reported by Rasmussen. Its called Presidential Harassment!
Working hard thank you! 
Doug Wead a truly great presidential historian had a wonderful take on a very beautiful moment in history the funeral service today of President Bush. Doug was able to brilliantly cover some very important and interesting periods of time! @LouDobbs
Hopefully OPEC will be keeping oil flows as is not restricted. The World does not want to see or need higher oil prices!
Looking forward to being with the Bush family. This is not a funeral this is a day of celebration for a great man who has led a long and distinguished life. He will be missed!
.....considered to be the worst and most dangerous addictive and deadly substance of them all. Last year over 77000 people died from Fentanyl. If China cracks down on this horror drug using the Death Penalty for distributors and pushers the results will be incredible!
One of the very exciting things to come out of my meeting with President Xi of China is his promise to me to criminalize the sale of deadly Fentanyl coming into the United States. It will now be considered a controlled substance. This could be a game changer on what is.......
Very strong signals being sent by China once they returned home from their long trip including stops from Argentina. Not to sound naive or anything but I believe President Xi meant every word of what he said at our long and hopefully historic meeting. ALL subjects discussed!
.....China had agreed to start immediately buying U.S. products. @business
China officially echoed President Donald Trumps optimism over bilateral trade talks. Chinese officials have begun preparing to restart imports of U.S. Soybeans Liquified Natural Gas the first sign confirming the claims of President Donald Trump and the White House that......
.....China does not want Tariffs!
We are either going to have a REAL DEAL with China or no deal at all - at which point we will be charging major Tariffs against Chinese product being shipped into the United States. Ultimately I believe we will be making a deal - either now or into the future....
....in the world. I want clean air and clean water and have been making great strides in improving Americas environment. But American taxpayers  and American workers  shouldnt pay to clean up others countries pollution.
I am glad that my friend @EmmanuelMacron and the protestors in Paris have agreed with the conclusion I reached two years ago. The Paris Agreement is fatally flawed because it raises the price of energy for responsible countries while whitewashing some of the worst polluters....
Could somebody please explain to the Democrats (we need their votes) that our Country losses 250 Billion Dollars a year on illegal immigration not including the terrible drug flow. Top Border Security including a Wall is $25 Billion. Pays for itself in two months. Get it done!
.....But if a fair deal is able to be made with China one that does all of the many things we know must be finally done I will happily sign. Let the negotiations begin. MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
....I am a Tariff Man. When people or countries come in to raid the great wealth of our Nation I want them to pay for the privilege of doing so. It will always be the best way to max out our economic power. We are right now taking in $billions in Tariffs. MAKE AMERICA RICH AGAIN
......on seeing whether or not a REAL deal with China is actually possible. If it is we will get it done. China is supposed to start buying Agricultural product and more immediately. President Xi and I want this deal to happen and it probably will. But if not remember......
The negotiations with China have already started. Unless extended they will end 90 days from the date of our wonderful and very warm dinner with President Xi in Argentina. Bob Lighthizer will be working closely with Steve Mnuchin Larry Kudlow Wilbur Ross and Peter Navarro.....
Looking forward to being with the wonderful Bush family at Blair House today. The former First Lady will be coming over to the White House this morning to be given a tour of the Christmas decorations by Melania. The elegance precision of the last two days have been remarkable!
Congratulations to newly inaugurated Mexican President @lopezobrador_. He had a tremendous political victory with the great support of the Mexican People. We will work well together for many years to come!
Looking forward to being with the Bush Family to pay my respects to President George H.W. Bush.
Bob Mueller (who is a much different man than people think) and his out of control band of Angry Democrats dont want the truth they only want lies. The truth is very bad for their mission!
I will never testify against Trump. This statement was recently made by Roger Stone essentially stating that he will not be forced by a rogue and out of control prosecutor to make up lies and stories about President Trump. Nice to know that some people still have guts!
....his wife and father-in-law (who has the money?) off Scott Free. He lied for this outcome and should in my opinion serve a full and complete sentence.
Michael Cohen asks judge for no Prison Time. You mean he can do all of the TERRIBLE unrelated to Trump things having to do with fraud big loans Taxis etc. and not serve a long prison term? He makes up stories to get a GREAT ALREADY reduced deal for himself and get.....
We would save Billions of Dollars if the Democrats would give us the votes to build the Wall. Either way people will NOT be allowed into our Country illegally! We will close the entire Southern Border if necessary. Also STOP THE DRUGS!
I am certain that at some time in the future President Xi and I together with President Putin of Russia will start talking about a meaningful halt to what has become a major and uncontrollable Arms Race. The U.S. spent 716 Billion Dollars this year. Crazy!
President Xi and I have a very strong and personal relationship. He and I are the only two people that can bring about massive and very positive change on trade and far beyond between our two great Nations. A solution for North Korea is a great thing for China and ALL!
Farmers will be a a very BIG and FAST beneficiary of our deal with China. They intend to start purchasing agricultural product immediately. We make the finest and cleanest product in the World and that is what China wants. Farmers I LOVE YOU!
My meeting in Argentina with President Xi of China was an extraordinary one. Relations with China have taken a BIG leap forward! Very good things will happen. We are dealing from great strength but China likewise has much to gain if and when a deal is completed. Level the field!
China has agreed to reduce and remove tariffs on cars coming into China from the U.S. Currently the tariff is 40%.
This week Jews around the world will celebrate the miracles of Hanukkah. @FLOTUS Melania and I send our very best wishes for a blessed and Happy Hanukkah! 
....However out of respect for the Bush Family and former President George H.W. Bush we will wait until after the funeral to have a press conference.
I was very much looking forward to having a press conference just prior to leaving Argentina because we have had such great success in our dealing with various countries and their leaders at the G20....
President George H.W. Bush led a long successful and beautiful life. Whenever I was with him I saw his absolute joy for life and true pride in his family. His accomplishments were great from beginning to end. He was a truly wonderful man and will be missed by all!
Statement from President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump on the Passing of Former President George H.W. Bush 
Watch @seanhannity on @FoxNews NOW. Enjoy!
Great day at the #G20Summit in Buenos Aires Argentina. Thank you! 
Great reviews on the USMCA - sooo much better than NAFTA!
To the Great people of Alaska. You have been hit hard by a big one. Please follow the directions of the highly trained professionals who are there to help you. Your Federal Government will spare no expense. God Bless you ALL!
Just signed one of the most important and largest Trade Deals in U.S. and World History. The United States Mexico and Canada worked so well together in crafting this great document. The terrible NAFTA will soon be gone. The USMCA will be fantastic for all!
....Lightly looked at doing a building somewhere in Russia. Put up zero money zero guarantees and didnt do the project. Witch Hunt!
Oh I get it! I am a very good developer happily living my life when I see our Country going in the wrong direction (to put it mildly). Against all odds I decide to run for President continue to run my business-very legal very cool talked about it on the campaign trail...
Arrived in Argentina with a very busy two days planned. Important meetings scheduled throughout. Our great Country is extremely well represented. Will be very productive!
Alan Dershowitz: These are not crimes. He (Mueller) has no authority to be a roving Commissioner. I dont see any evidence of crimes. This is an illegal Hoax that should be ended immediately. Mueller refuses to look at the real crimes on the other side. Where is the IG REPORT?
This demonstrates the Robert Mueller and his partisans have no evidence not a whiff of collusion between Trump and the Russians. Russian project legal. Trump Tower meeting (son Don) perfectly legal. He wasnt involved with hacking. Gregg Jarrett. A total Witch Hunt!
Just landed in Argentina with @FLOTUS Melania! #G20Summit 
As RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel oversaw history defying gains in the Senate and unprecedented fundraising strength. I have asked her to serve another term for my 2020 re-elect because there is no one better for the job!
We have been working hard on this - and its only going to get better! 
With all of the new books coming out you can't forget two of the great originals written by @GreggJarrett and @JudgeJeanine Pirro. Their books both went to #1. Go get them now the phony Witch Hunt is well explained!
.@DBonginos new book "Spygate: The Attempted Sabotage of Donald J. Trump" is terrific. He's tough he's smart and he really gets it. His book is on sale now I highly recommend!
....They have really done a great job in capturing my long-held views and ideas. This book is on sale now - a terrific read of a really interesting subject!
.@StephenMoore and Arthur Laffer two very talented men have just completed an incredible book on my Economic Policies or as they call it #TRUMPONOMICS....
.@SteveScalise has written an absolutely fascinating book (BACK IN THE GAME) on the world of D.C. politics and more. He has experienced so much in a short period of time. Few people have had his bravery or courage and he has come all the way back. A big power and great person!
....in Argentina with President Vladimir Putin. I look forward to a meaningful Summit again as soon as this situation is resolved!
Based on the fact that the ships and sailors have not been returned to Ukraine from Russia I have decided it would be best for all parties concerned to cancel my previously scheduled meeting....
Billions of Dollars are pouring into the coffers of the U.S.A. because of the Tariffs being charged to China and there is a long way to go. If companies dont want to pay Tariffs build in the U.S.A. Otherwise lets just make our Country richer than ever before!
When will this illegal Joseph McCarthy style Witch Hunt one that has shattered so many innocent lives ever end-or will it just go on forever? After wasting more than $40000000 (is that possible?) it has proven only one thing-there was NO Collusion with Russia. So Ridiculous!
Did you ever see an investigation more in search of a crime? At the same time Mueller and the Angry Democrats arent even looking at the atrocious and perhaps subversive crimes that were committed by Crooked Hillary Clinton and the Democrats. A total disgrace!
General Motors is very counter to what other auto and other companies are doing. Big Steel is opening and renovating plants all over the country. Auto companies are pouring into the U.S. including BMW which just announced a major new plant. The U.S.A. is booming!
So much happening with the now discredited Witch Hunt. This total Hoax will be studied for years!
Sebastian Gorka a very talented man who I got to know well while he was working at the White House has just written an excellent book Why We Fight. Much will be learned from this very good read!
On behalf of @FLOTUS Melania and the entire Trump family I want to wish you all a very MERRY CHRISTMAS! May this Christmas Season bring peace to your hearts warmth to your homes cheer to your spirits and JOY TO THE WORLD! #NCTL2018? 
Steel Dynamics announced that it will build a brand new 3 million ton steel mill in the Southwest that will create 600 good-paying U.S. JOBS. Steel JOBS are coming back to America just like I predicted. Congratulations to Steel Dynamics!
.....and G.M. would not be closing their plants in Ohio Michigan Maryland. Get smart Congress. Also the countries that send us cars have taken advantage of the U.S. for decades. The President has great power on this issue - Because of the G.M. event it is being studied now!
The reason that the small truck business in the U.S. is such a go to favorite is that for many years Tariffs of 25% have been put on small trucks coming into our country. It is called the chicken tax. If we did that with cars coming in many more cars would be built here.....
While the disgusting Fake News is doing everything within their power not to report it that way at least 3 major players are intimating that the Angry Mueller Gang of Dems is viciously telling witnesses to lie about facts they will get relief. This is our Joseph McCarthy Era!
Congratulations to Senator Cindy Hyde-Smith on your big WIN in the Great State of Mississippi. We are all very proud of you!
Brenda Snipes in charge of voting in Broward County Florida was just spotted wearing a beautiful dress with 300 I VOTED signs on it. Just kidding she is a fine very honorable and highly respected voting tactician!
The Mueller Witch Hunt is a total disgrace. They are looking at supposedly stolen Crooked Hillary Clinton Emails (even though they dont want to look at the DNC Server) but have no interest in the Emails that Hillary DELETED acid washed AFTER getting a Congressional Subpoena!
Very disappointed with General Motors and their CEO Mary Barra for closing plants in Ohio Michigan and Maryland. Nothing being closed in Mexico China. The U.S. saved General Motors and this is the THANKS we get! We are now looking at cutting all @GM subsidies including....
....for electric cars. General Motors made a big China bet years ago when they built plants there (and in Mexico) - dont think that bet is going to pay off. I am here to protect Americas Workers!
Polls are open in Mississippi. We need Cindy Hyde-Smith in Washington. GO OUT AND VOTE. Thanks!
....terrible Gang of Angry Democrats. Look at their past and look where they come from. The now $30000000 Witch Hunt continues and theyve got nothing but ruined lives. Where is the Server? Let these terrible people go back to the Clinton Foundation and Justice Department!
....The Fake News Media builds Bob Mueller up as a Saint when in actuality he is the exact opposite. He is doing TREMENDOUS damage to our Criminal Justice System where he is only looking at one side and not the other. Heroes will come of this and it wont be Mueller and his...
The Phony Witch Hunt continues but Mueller and his gang of Angry Dems are only looking at one side not the other. Wait until it comes out how horribly viciously they are treating people ruining lives for them refusing to lie. Mueller is a conflicted prosecutor gone rogue....
....starts today election is on December 4th. @VoteBradRaff is tough on Crime and Borders Loves our Military and Vets. He will be great for jobs!
Brad Raffensperger will be a fantastic Secretary of State for Georgia - will work closely with @BrianKempGA. It is really important that you get out and vote for Brad - early voting....
While CNN doesnt do great in the United States based on ratings outside of the U.S. they have very little competition. Throughout the world CNN has a powerful voice portraying the United States in an unfair....
....and false way. Something has to be done including the possibility of the United States starting our own Worldwide Network to show the World the way we really are GREAT!
On the ten-year anniversary of the Mumbai terror attack the U.S. stands with the people of India in their quest for justice. The attack killed 166 innocents including six Americans. We will never let terrorists win or even come close to winning!
....hundreds of people closely involved with my campaign who never met saw or spoke to a Russian during this period? So many campaign workers people inside from the beginning ask me why they have not been called (they want to be). There was NO Collusion Mueller knows it!
When Mueller does his final report will he be covering all of his conflicts of interest in a preamble will he be recommending action on all of the crimes of many kinds from those on the other side(whatever happened to Podesta?) and will he be putting in statements from.....
Mexico should move the flag waving Migrants many of whom are stone cold criminals back to their countries. Do it by plane do it by bus do it anyway you want but they are NOT coming into the U.S.A. We will close the Border permanently if need be. Congress fund the WALL!
....children from parents as did Bush etc. because that is the policy and law. I tried to keep them together but the problem is when you do that vast numbers of additional people storm the Border. So with Obama seperation is fine but with Trump its not. Fake 60 Minutes!
.@60Minutes did a phony story about child separation when they know we had the exact same policy as the Obama Administration. In fact a picture of children in jails was used by other Fake Media to show how bad (cruel) we are but it was in 2014 during O years. Obama separated....
Clinton Foundation donations drop 42% - which shows that they illegally played the power game. They monetized their political influence through the Foundation. During her tenure the State Department was put in the service of the Clinton Foundation. Andrew McCarthy
Europe has to pay their fair share for Military Protection. The European Union for many years has taken advantage of us on Trade and then they dont live up to their Military commitment through NATO. Things must change fast!
General Anthony Tata: President Trump is a man of his word he said he was going to be tough on the Border and he is tough on the Border. He has rightfully strengthened the Border in the face of an unprecedented threat. Its the right move by President Trump. Thanks General!
Mississippi Vote for @cindyhydesmith on Tuesday. Respected by all. We need her in Washington!. Thanks!
So great that oil prices are falling (thank you President T). Add that which is like a big Tax Cut to our other good Economic news. Inflation down (are you listening Fed)!
Would be very SMART if Mexico would stop the Caravans long before they get to our Southern Border or if originating countries would not let them form (it is a way they get certain people out of their country and dump in U.S. No longer). Dems created this problem. No crossings!
The large and violent French protests dont take into account how badly the United States has been treated on Trade by the European Union or on fair and reasonable payments for our GREAT military protection. Both of these topics must be remedied soon.
I will be in Gulfport and Tupelo Mississippi on Monday night doing two Rallies for Senator Hyde-Smith who has a very important Election on Tuesday. She is an outstanding person who is strong on the Border Crime Military our great Vets Healthcare the 2nd A. Needed in D.C.
Victor Davis Hanson was a very good and interesting guest of Mark Levin on @FoxNews. He wrote a highly touted book called The Second World Wars and a new book will soon be coming out called The Case For Trump. Recommend both. @marklevinshow
....All will stay in Mexico. If for any reason it becomes necessary we will CLOSE our Southern Border. There is no way that the United States will after decades of abuse put up with this costly and dangerous situation anymore!
Migrants at the Southern Border will not be allowed into the United States until their claims are individually approved in court. We only will allow those who come into our Country legally. Other than that our very strong policy is Catch and Detain. No Releasing into the U.S...
I am extremely happy and proud of the job being done by @USTreasury Secretary @StevenMnuchin1. The FAKE NEWS likes to write stories to the contrary quoting phony sources or jealous people but they arent true. They never like to ask me for a quote b/c it would kill their story.
Really good Criminal Justice Reform has a true shot at major bipartisan support. @senatemajldr Mitch McConnell and @SenSchumer have a real chance to do something so badly needed in our country. Already passed with big vote in House. Would be a major victory for ALL!
Really good Criminal Justice Reform has a true shot at major bipartisan support. @senatemajldr Mitch McConnell and @senchuckschumer have a real chance to do something so badly needed in our country. Already past with big vote in House. Would be a major victory for ALL!
Republicans and Democrats MUST come together finally with a major Border Security package which will include funding for the Wall. After 40 years of talk it is finally time for action. Fix the Border for once and for all NOW!
Our highly trained security professionals are not allowed to do their job on the Border because of the Judicial Activism and Interference by the 9th Circuit. Nevertheless they are working hard to make America a safer place though hard to do when anybody filing a lawsuit wins!
This is the coldest weather in the history of the Thanksgiving Day Parade in NYC and one of the coldest Thanksgivings on record!
Will be speaking with our great military in different parts of the world through teleconference at 9:00 A.M. Eastern. Then it will be off to see our Coast Guard patriots to thank them for the great job they have been doing especially with the hurricanes. Happy Thanksgiving!
....and Safety at the Border or anywhere else. They know nothing about it and are making our Country unsafe. Our great Law Enforcement professionals MUST BE ALLOWED TO DO THEIR JOB! If not there will be only bedlam chaos injury and death. We want the Constitution as written!
Justice Roberts can say what he wants but the 9th Circuit is a complete total disaster. It is out of control has a horrible reputation is overturned more than any Circuit in the Country 79% is used to get an almost guaranteed result. Judges must not Legislate Security...
HAPPY THANKSGIVING TO ALL!
Its a mean nasty world out there the Middle East in particular. This is a long and historic commitment one that is absolutely vital to Americas national security. @SecPompeo I agree 100%. In addition many Billions of Dollars of purchases made in U.S. big Jobs Oil!
You just cant win with the Fake News Media. A big story today is that because I have pushed so hard and gotten Gasoline Prices so low more people are driving and I have caused traffic jams throughout our Great Nation. Sorry everyone!
Brutal and Extended Cold Blast could shatter ALL RECORDS - Whatever happened to Global Warming?
79% of these decisions have been overturned in the 9th Circuit. @FoxNews A terrible costly and dangerous disgrace. It has become a dumping ground for certain lawyers looking for easy wins and delays. Much talk over dividing up the 9th Circuit into 2 or 3 Circuits. Too big!
There are a lot of CRIMINALS in the Caravan. We will stop them. Catch and Detain! Judicial Activism by people who know nothing about security and the safety of our citizens is putting our country in great danger. Not good!
Thank you to President Trump on the Border. No American President has ever done this before. Hector Garza National Border Patrol Council
.....are so many opposing view (on Border and Safety) cases filed there and why are a vast number of those cases overturned. Please study the numbers they are shocking. We need protection and security - these rulings are making our country unsafe! Very dangerous and unwise!
Sorry Chief Justice John Roberts but you do indeed have Obama judges and they have a much different point of view than the people who are charged with the safety of our country. It would be great if the 9th Circuit was indeed an independent judiciary but if it is why......
Great new book out Mad Politics: Keeping Your Sanity in a World Gone Crazy by @RealDrGina Loudon. Go out and get your copy today  a great read!
Trump Imitation Syndrome is afflicting the presidents liberal enemies Thank you @MGoodwin_NYPost! 
MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
Oil prices getting lower. Great! Like a big Tax Cut for America and the World. Enjoy! $54 was just $82. Thank you to Saudi Arabia but lets go lower!
AMERICA FIRST!
So-called comedian Michelle Wolf bombed so badly last year at the White House Correspondents Dinner that this year for the first time in decades they will have an author instead of a comedian. Good first step in comeback of a dying evening and tradition! Maybe I will go?
I hope the discovery and eventual recovery of the Argentine submarine San Juan brings needed closure to the wonderful families of those brave missing sailors. I look forward to hearing more from my friend President @MauricioMacri in Argentina later this month.
The Fake News is showing old footage of people climbing over our Ocean Area Fence. This is what it really looks like - no climbers anymore under our Administration! 
....We no longer pay Pakistan the $Billions because they would take our money and do nothing for us Bin Laden being a prime example Afghanistan being another. They were just one of many countries that take from the United States without giving anything in return. Thats ENDING!
Of course we should have captured Osama Bin Laden long before we did. I pointed him out in my book just BEFORE the attack on the World Trade Center. President Clinton famously missed his shot. We paid Pakistan Billions of Dollars they never told us he was living there. Fools!..
.@cindyhydesmith loves Mississippi and our Great U.S.A. 
From day one Rick Scott never wavered. He was a great Governor and will be even a greater Senator in representing the People of Florida. Congratulations to Rick on having waged such a courageous and successful campaign!
Catch and Release is an obsolete term. It is now Catch and Detain. Illegal Immigrants trying to come into the U.S.A. often proudly flying the flag of their nation as they ask for U.S. Asylum will be detained or turned away. Dems must approve Border Security Wall NOW!
The Mayor of Tijuana Mexico just stated that the City is ill-prepared to handle this many migrants the backlog could last 6 months. Likewise the U.S. is ill-prepared for this invasion and will not stand for it. They are causing crime and big problems in Mexico. Go home!
So funny to see little Adam Schitt (D-CA) talking about the fact that Acting Attorney General Matt Whitaker was not approved by the Senate but not mentioning the fact that Bob Mueller (who is highly conflicted) was not approved by the Senate!
I will be interviewed by Chris Wallace on @FoxNews at 2:00 P.M. and 7:00 P.M. Enjoy!
Incredible to be with our GREAT HEROES today in California. We will always be with you! 
Heading to California with @GOPLeader Kevin McCarthy @RepLaMalfa and @KenCalvert. Look forward to being with our brave Firefighters First Responders and @FEMA along with the many brave People of California. We are with you all the way  God Bless you all!
....I cant imagine any President having a better or closer relationship with their Vice President then the two of us. Just more FAKE NEWS the Enemy of the People!
The New York Times did a phony story as usual about my relationship with @VP Mike Pence. They made up sources and refused to ask me the only one that would know for a quote....
Congratulations to Andrew Gillum on having run a really tough and competitive race for Governor of the Great State of Florida. He will be a strong Democrat warrior long into the future - a force to reckon with!
I can get Nancy Pelosi as many votes as she wants in order for her to be Speaker of the House. She deserves this victory she has earned it - but there are those in her party who are trying to take it away. She will win! @TomReedCongress
Thank you @JerryBrownGov. Look forward to joining you and @GavinNewsom tomorrow in California. We are with you! 
....their countrys flag. Can this be possible? Yes because it is all a BIG CON and the American taxpayer is paying for it!
Isnt it ironic that large Caravans of people are marching to our border wanting U.S.A. asylum because they are fearful of being in their country - yet they are proudly waving....
Congratulations to Brian Kemp on becoming the new Governor of Georgia. Stacey Abrams fought brilliantly and hard - she will have a terrific political future! Brian was unrelenting and will become a great Governor for the truly Wonderful People of Georgia!
Congratulations to Ron DeSantis on becoming the new Governor of Florida. Against all odds he fought fought fought the result being a historic victory. He never gave up and never will. He will be a great Governor!
PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM 
People are not being told that the Republican Party is on track to pick up two seats in the U.S. Senate and epic victory: 53 to 47. The Fake News Media only wants to speak of the House where the Midterm results were better than other sitting Presidents.
Today in the East Room of the @WhiteHouse it was my true privilege to award seven extraordinary Americans with the Presidential Medal of Freedom...
People are not being told that the Republican Party is on track to pick up two seats in the U.S. Senate and epic victory: 53 to 47. The Fake News Media only wants to speak of the House were the Midterm results were better than other sitting Presidents.
It is our sacred duty to support Americas Service Members every single day they wear the uniform  and every day after when they return home as Veterans. Together we will HONOR those who defend us we will CHERISH those who protect us and we will celebrate the amazing heroes... 
Last year I signed the landmark VA Accountability Act to ensure those who mistreat our Veterans can be held fully accountable. Since my inauguration we have removed more than 3600 government employees who were not giving our Vets the care they deserve.... 
It was my great honor to host a @WhiteHouse Conference on Supporting Veterans Military Families...To everyone here today who has served our Country in uniform to every Veteran Military family across our land I want to express the eternal gratitude of our entire Nation! 
.@FLOTUS Melania and I were honored to visit with our GREAT U.S. MARINES at the Marine Barracks here in Washington D.C. We love you @USMC @MBWDC! 
The only Collusion is that of the Democrats with Russia and many others. Why didnt the FBI take the Server from the DNC? They still dont have it. Check out how biased Facebook Google and Twitter are in favor of the Democrats. Thats the real Collusion!
Universities will someday study what highly conflicted (and NOT Senate approved) Bob Mueller and his gang of Democrat thugs have done to destroy people. Why is he protecting Crooked Hillary Comey McCabe Lisa Page her lover Peter S and all of his friends on the other side?
....care how many lives the ruin. These are Angry People including the highly conflicted Bob Mueller who worked for Obama for 8 years. They wont even look at all of the bad acts and crimes on the other side. A TOTAL WITCH HUNT LIKE NO OTHER IN AMERICAN HISTORY!
The inner workings of the Mueller investigation are a total mess. They have found no collusion and have gone absolutely nuts. They are screaming and shouting at people horribly threatening them to come up with the answers they want. They are a disgrace to our Nation and dont...
The White House is running very smoothly and the results for our Nation are obviously very good. We are the envy of the world. But anytime I even think about making changes the FAKE NEWS MEDIA goes crazy always seeking to make us look as bad as possible! Very dishonest!
Our pledge to hire American includes those leaving prison and looking for a very fresh start  new job and new life. The legislation I am supporting today contains many significant reforms. Read more here: 
I am grateful to be here today w/ Members of the House Senate who have poured their time heart and energy into the crucial issue of Prison Reform. Working together w/ my Admin over the last two years these members have reached a bipartisan agreement...
Just spoke to Governor Jerry Brown to let him know that we are with him and the people of California all the way!
Was just briefed by @FEMA_Brock and @SecretaryZinke who are in California. Thank you to the great Firefighters First Responders and @FEMA for the incredible job they are doing w/ the California Wildfires. Our Nation appreciates your heroism courage genius. God Bless you all!
Not seen in many years Americas steelworkers get a hard-earned raise because of my Administrations policies to help bring back the U.S. steel industry which is critical to our National Security. I will always protect America and its workers!
Boom: Record high business optimism need for employees at 45-year high 
It was my great honor to host a celebration of Diwali the Hindu Festival of Lights in the Roosevelt Room at the @WhiteHouse this afternoon. Very very special people! 
Today we gathered for Diwali a holiday observed by Buddhists Sikhs and Jains throughout the United States around the world. Hundreds of millions of people have gathered with family friends to light the Diya and to mark the beginning of a New Year. 
Today we gathered for Diwali a holiday observed by Buddhists Sikhs and Jains throughout the United States around the world. Hundreds of millions of people have gathered with family friends to light the Diya and to mark the beginning of a New Year. 
We mourn for the lives lost and we pray for the victims of the California Wildfires. I want to thank the Firefighters and First Responders for their incredible courage in the face of grave danger.... 
The story in the New York Times concerning North Korea developing missile bases is inaccurate. We fully know about the sites being discussed nothing new - and nothing happening out of the normal. Just more Fake News. I will be the first to let you know if things go bad!
When will Bill Nelson concede in Florida? The characters running Broward and Palm Beach voting will not be able to find enough votes too much spotlight on them now!
By the way when the helicopter couldnt fly to the first cemetery in France because of almost zero visibility I suggested driving. Secret Service said NO too far from airport big Paris shutdown. Speech next day at American Cemetery in pouring rain! Little reported-Fake News!
By the way when the helicopter couldnt fly to the first cemetery in France because of almost zero visibility I suggested driving. Secret Service said NO too far from airport big Paris shutdown. Speech next day at American Cemetary in pouring rain! Little reported-Fake News!
......MAKE FRANCE GREAT AGAIN!
The problem is that Emmanuel suffers from a very low Approval Rating in France 26% and an unemployment rate of almost 10%. He was just trying to get onto another subject. By the way there is no country more Nationalist than France very proud people-and rightfully so!........
On Trade France makes excellent wine but so does the U.S. The problem is that France makes it very hard for the U.S. to sell its wines into France and charges big Tariffs whereas the U.S. makes it easy for French wines and charges very small Tariffs. Not fair must change!
Emmanuel Macron suggests building its own army to protect Europe against the U.S. China and Russia. But it was Germany in World Wars One Two - How did that work out for France? They were starting to learn German in Paris before the U.S. came along. Pay for NATO or not!
I just approved an expedited request for a Major Disaster Declaration for the State of California. Wanted to respond quickly in order to alleviate some of the incredible suffering going on. I am with you all the way. God Bless all of the victims and families affected.
Hopefully Saudi Arabia and OPEC will not be cutting oil production. Oil prices should be much lower based on supply!
American Cable Association has big problems with Comcast. They say that Comcast routinely violates Antitrust Laws. These guys are acting much worse and have much more potential for damage to consumers than anything AT&T-Time Warner would do. Charlie Gasparino
The California Fire Fighters FEMA and First Responders are amazing and very brave. Thank you and God Bless you all!
The prospect of Presidential Harassment by the Dems is causing the Stock Market big headaches!
The Florida Election should be called in favor of Rick Scott and Ron DeSantis in that large numbers of new ballots showed up out of nowhere and many ballots are missing or forged. An honest vote count is no longer possible-ballots massively infected. Must go with Election Night!
.....of money spent on protecting other countries and we get nothing but Trade Deficits and Losses. It is time that these very rich countries either pay the United States for its great military protection or protect themselves...and Trade must be made FREE and FAIR!
.....hundreds of billions of dollars for the great privilege of losing hundreds of billions of dollars with these same countries on trade. I told them that this situation cannot continue - It is and always has been ridiculously unfair to the United States. Massive amounts.....
Just returned from France where much was accomplished in my meetings with World Leaders. Never easy bringing up the fact that the U.S. must be treated fairly which it hasnt on both Military and Trade. We pay for LARGE portions of other countries military protection........
Exactly 100 years ago today on November 11th 1918 World War I came to an end. We are gathered together at this hallowed resting place to pay tribute to the brave Americans who gave their last breath in that mighty struggle.... 
Poland a great country - Congratulations on the 100th Anniversary of your Independence. I will never forget my time there! 
Beautiful ceremony today in Paris commemorating the end of World War One. Many World leaders in attendance. Thank you to @EmmanuelMacron President of France! Now off to Suresnes American Cemetery to make speech in honor of our great heroes! Then back to the U.S.A.
On this Veterans Day  the 100th Anniversary of the end of WWI we honor the brave HEROES who fought for America in the Great War and every Veteran who has worn the uniform and kept our Nation Safe Strong and FREE! 
With proper Forest Management we can stop the devastation constantly going on in California. Get Smart!
These California fires are expanding very very quickly (in some cases 80-100 acres a minute). If people dont evacuate quickly they risk being overtaken by the fire. Please listen to evacuation orders from State and local officials!
More than 4000 are fighting the Camp and Woolsey Fires in California that have burned over 170000 acres. Our hearts are with those fighting the fires the 52000 who have evacuated and the families of the 11 who have died. The destruction is catastrophic. God Bless them all.
Trying to STEAL two big elections in Florida! We are watching closely!
Had very productive meetings and calls for our Country today. Meeting tonight with World Leaders!
Happy 243rd Birthday to our GREAT U.S. Marine Corps?? 
I am in Paris getting ready to celebrate the end of World War One. Is there anything better to celebrate than the end of a war in particular that one which was one of the bloodiest and worst of all time?
There is no reason for these massive deadly and costly forest fires in California except that forest management is so poor. Billions of dollars are given each year with so many lives lost all because of gross mismanagement of the forests. Remedy now or no more Fed payments!
....Mr. Whitaker is very highly thought of by @SenJoniErnst Senator @ChuckGrassley Ambassador @TerryBranstad Leonard Leo of Federalist Society and many more. I feel certain he will make an outstanding Acting Attorney General!
Matthew G. Whitaker is a highly respected former U.S. Attorney from Iowa. He was chosen by Jeff Sessions to be his Chief of Staff. I did not know Mr. Whitaker. Likewise as Chief I did not know Mr. Whitaker except primarily as he traveled with A.G. Sessions. No social contact...
President Macron of France has just suggested that Europe build its own military in order to protect itself from the U.S. China and Russia. Very insulting but perhaps Europe should first pay its fair share of NATO which the U.S. subsidizes greatly!
Just out  in Arizona SIGNATURES DONT MATCH. Electoral corruption - Call for a new Election? We must protect our Democracy!
Thank you @marcorubio for helping to expose the potential corruption going on with respect to Election Theft in Broward and Palm Beach Counties. The WORLD is now watching closely!
In the 2016 Election I was winning by so much in Florida that Broward County which was very late with vote tabulation and probably getting ready to do a number couldnt do it because not enough people live in Broward for them to falsify a victory!
Mayor Gillum conceded on Election Day and now Broward County has put him back into play. Bill Nelson conceded Election - now hes back in play!? This is an embarrassment to our Country and to Democracy!
Rick Scott was up by 50000+ votes on Election Day now they found many votes and he is only up 15000 votes. The Broward Effect. How come they never find Republican votes?
Jeff Flake(y) doesnt want to protect the Non-Senate confirmed Special Counsel he wants to protect his future after being unelectable in Arizona for the crime of doing a terrible job! A weak and ineffective guy!
As soon as Democrats sent their best Election stealing lawyer Marc Elias to Broward County they miraculously started finding Democrat votes. Dont worry Florida - I am sending much better lawyers to expose the FRAUD!
You mean they are just now finding votes in Florida and Georgia  but the Election was on Tuesday? Lets blame the Russians and demand an immediate apology from President Putin!
.@BrianKempGA ran a great race in Georgia  he won. It is time to move on!
Presidential Proclamation Addressing Mass Migration Through the Southern Border of the United States 
Law Enforcement is looking into another big corruption scandal having to do with Election Fraud in #Broward and Palm Beach. Florida voted for Rick Scott!
....Great bravery shown by police. California Highway Patrol was on scene within 3 minutes with first officer to enter shot numerous times. That Sheriffs Sergeant died in the hospital. God bless all of the victims and families of the victims. Thank you to Law Enforcement.
I have been fully briefed on the terrible shooting in California. Law Enforcement and First Responders together with the FBI are on scene. 13 people at this time have been reported dead. Likewise the shooter is dead along with the first police officer to enter the bar....
....We thank Attorney General Jeff Sessions for his service and wish him well! A permanent replacement will be nominated at a later date.
We are pleased to announce that Matthew G. Whitaker Chief of Staff to Attorney General Jeff Sessions at the Department of Justice will become our new Acting Attorney General of the United States. He will serve our Country well....
According to NBC News Voters Nationwide Disapprove of the so-called Mueller Investigation (46%) more than they Approve (41%). You mean they are finally beginning to understand what a disgusting Witch Hunt led by 17 Angry Democrats is all about!
In all fairness Nancy Pelosi deserves to be chosen Speaker of the House by the Democrats. If they give her a hard time perhaps we will add some Republican votes. She has earned this great honor!
If the Democrats think they are going to waste Taxpayer Money investigating us at the House level then we will likewise be forced to consider investigating them for all of the leaks of Classified Information and much else at the Senate level. Two can play that game!
To any of the pundits or talking heads that do not give us proper credit for this great Midterm Election just remember two words - FAKE NEWS!
I will be doing a news conference at The White House - 11:30 A.M. Will be discussing our success in the Midterms!
Those that worked with me in this incredible Midterm Election embracing certain policies and principles did very well. Those that did not say goodbye! Yesterday was such a very Big Win and all under the pressure of a Nasty and Hostile Media!
Ron DeSantis showed great courage in his hard fought campaign to become the Governor of Florida. Congratulations to Ron and family!
Received so many Congratulations from so many on our Big Victory last night including from foreign nations (friends) that were waiting me out and hoping on Trade Deals. Now we can all get back to work and get things done!
.@DavidAsmanfox How do the Democrats respond to this? Think of how his position with Republicans improves-all the candidates who won tonight. They realize how important he is because of what he did in campaigning for them. They owe him their political career. Thanks I agree!
....unbelievably lucky to have him and Im just awed at how well theyve done. Its all the Trump magic - Trump is the magic man. Incredible hes got the entire media against him attacking him every day and he pulls out these enormous wins. Ben Stein The Capitalist Code
Theres only been 5 times in the last 105 years that an incumbent President has won seats in the Senate in the off year election. Mr. Trump has magic about him. This guy has magic coming out of his ears. He is an astonishing vote getter campaigner. The Republicans are.........
Tremendous success tonight. Thank you to all!
Congressman Randy Hultgren (R) of Illinois is doing a great job. Get out and Vote for Randy - Total Endorsement!
Florida very important - get out and vote for Florida Congressional Candidate Michael Waltz (R). He has my Strong Endorsement!
Epstein all the way in Michigan House 11. She is a wonderful person and at the same time a real fighter. Has my Strong Endorsement!
Bob Hugin successful all of his life would be a Great Senator from New Jersey. He has my complete and total Endorsement! Get out and Vote for Bob.
POLLING LOCATIONS: 
Congressman Peter King of New York is a hardworking gem. Loves his Country and his State. Get out and VOTE for Peter!
There is a rumor put out by the Democrats that Josh Hawley of Missouri left the Arena last night early. It is Fake News. He met me at the plane when I arrived spoke at the great Rally stayed to the very end. In fact I said goodbye to him and left before he did. Deception!
A fantastic evening in Cape Girardeau Missouri. Josh @HawleyMO will be a tireless champion for YOU. He is great on jobs great on tax cuts and tough on crime. He shares your values and he will always support our Military Vets and Police! Get out tomorrow and VOTE for Josh!! 
A vote for Claire McCaskill is a vote for Schumer Pelosi Waters and their socialist agenda. Claire voted IN FAVOR of deadly Sanctuary Cities - she would rather protect criminal aliens than American citizens which is why she needs to be voted out of office. Vote @HawleyMO! 
A fantastic evening in Girardeau Missouri. Josh @HawleyMO will be a tireless champion for YOU. He is great on jobs great on tax cuts and tough on crime. He shares your values and he will always support our Military Vets and Police! Get out tomorrow and VOTE for Josh!! 
You have been loyal and faithful to your Country and now you have a President that is loyal and faithful to you. Get out tomorrow and ! 
On my way see you soon Cape Girardeau Missouri! #MAGARally 
Massive crowd inside and outside the Allen County War Memorial Coliseum in Fort Wayne Indiana! Thank you for joining us tonight - and make sure you get out and tomorrow! 
There is only one way to stop this Democrat-Led assault on our sovereignty  you have to VOTE Republican TOMORROW! Polling locations: 
Thank you Indiana! A vote for Mike @Braun4Indiana is a vote to keep your jobs going up your wages going up and your healthcare costs coming down. Its a vote to keep your families safe to keep criminals traffickers drug dealers OUT of our Country! Get out and for for Mike! 
Just landed in Fort Wayne Indiana for a #MAGARally at the Allen County War Memorial Coliseum. See everyone soon! 
Republicans have created the best economy in the HISTORY of our Country  and the hottest jobs market on planet earth. The Democrat Agenda is a Socialist Nightmare. The Republican Agenda is the AMERICAN DREAM! 
Thank you Ohio! When you enter the voting booth tomorrow you will be making a simple choice. A vote for Republicans is a vote to continue our extraordinary prosperity. A vote for Dems is a vote to bring this Economic Boom crashing to a sudden screeching halt. Vote @MikeDeWine! 
Somethings happening America! Get out tomorrow and so together we can KEEP MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!! 
Bill Nelson is kind of an empty figure in Washington. You never hear his name hes never in debates on key issues - he is just under the radar. Chris Wallace on @FoxNews In other words Nelson is a stiff.
Law Enforcement has been strongly notified to watch closely for any ILLEGAL VOTING which may take place in Tuesdays Election (or Early Voting). Anyone caught will be subject to the Maximum Criminal Penalties allowed by law. Thank you!
REMEMBER FLORIDA: I have been President of the United States for almost two years. During that time Senator Bill Nelson didnt call me once. Rick Scott called constantly requesting dollars plus for Florida. Did a GREAT job on hurricanes. VOTE SCOTT!
So funny to see the CNN Fake Suppression Polls and false rhetoric. Watch for real results Tuesday. We are lucky CNNs ratings are so low. Dont fall for the Suppression Game. Go out VOTE. Remember we now have perhaps the greatest Economy (JOBS) in the history of our Country!
I need @claudiatenney of #NY22 to be re-elected in order to get our big plans moving. Her opponent would be a disaster. Nobody works harder than Claudia and she is a producer. I look forward to working together with her - she has my Strongest Endorsement! Vote Claudia!
No matter what she says Senator Claire McCaskill will always vote against us and the Great State of Missouri! Vote for Josh Hawley - he will be a great Senator!
If @AndrewGillum did the same job with Florida that he has done in Tallahassee as Mayor the State will be a crime ridden overtaxed mess. @RonDeSantisFL will be a great Governor. VOTE!!!!!!
.@DebbieStabenow voted against Tax Cuts great Healthcare Supreme Court Justices and all of the many things the people of Michigan wanted and need. She is an automatic far left vote controlled by her bosses. John James can be a truly great Senator!
Dana Rohrabacher has been a great Congressman for his District and for the people of Cal. He works hard and is respected by all - he produces! Dems are desperate to replace Dana by spending vast sums to elect a super liberal who is weak on Crime and bad for our Military Vets!
John James running as a Republican for the Senate from Michigan is a spectacular young star of the future. We should make him a star of the present. A distinguished West Point Grad and Vet people should Vote Out Schumer Puppet Debbie Stabenow who does nothing for Michigan!
In just 2 days the people of Tennessee are going to elect @VoteMarsha Blackburn to the United States Senate to protect your jobs defend your borders and CONTINUE MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! Get out on Tuesday and VOTE for Marsha! 
Thank you for joining us tonight in Tennessee @TheLeeGreenwood. GOD BLESS THE U.S.A.! 
Great to be back in Tennessee. On our way to the McKenzie Arena in Chattanooga for a huge #MAGARally - see everyone soon! 
Thank you Macon Georgia! Get out on Tuesday November 6th and VOTE for @BrianKempGA as your next Governor to protect your jobs defend your borders fight for your values and continue MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! 
On my way to Macon Georgia where the crowds are massive for a 4pmE #MAGARally. Will be in Chattanooga Tennessee tonight seen below for a 7pmE rally. Somethings happening! Everyone needs to get out and VOTE! 
WOW - Departing the White House shortly. See you soon Georgia! #MAGA 
New Fox Poll shows a 40% Approval Rating by African Americans for President Trump a record for Republicans. Thank you a great honor!
Unbelievable crowd in Florida tonight. Get out and VOTE! #MAGA 
If you want to protect criminal aliens  VOTE DEMOCRAT. If you want to protect Law-Abiding Americans  VOTE REPUBLICAN! 
.@DannyTarkanian is a great guy and a team player. He will represent his District State and Country at the highest level. Danny is strong on Military our Vets Second Amendment and all of the things that we so strongly stand for. Vote for Danny - he has my Strong Endorsement!
Another fantastic #MAGARally tonight in the Great State of Florida. In just 3 days the People of Florida are going to elect @ScottforFlorida and @RonDeSantisFL to protect your jobs defend your BORDERS and CONTINUE MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! 
Heading to Pensacola Florida - will be there soon. Amazing lines of people wanting to get in - what a crowd! Is this a sign of Republican Strength on Tuesday? 
Governor @DougDucey of Arizona is doing a great job. Doug is strong on Crime the Border and our Second Amendment. Loves our Military our Vets. Vote for Doug he has my full and Complete Endorsement!
....Lake Okeechobee and all of the hurricane money were a passion for Rick Scott who called endlessly on behalf of the People of Florida. Vote @ScottforFlorida!
In all the time Ive been President almost two years never once did Senator Bill Nelson call me to ask for help for the Great State of Florida. I never see him until election time....
Rumor has it that Senator Joe Donnelly of Indiana is paying for Facebook ads for his so-called opponent on the libertarian ticket. Donnelly is trying to steal the election? Isnt that what Russia did!?
Arizona is such a Great State but it needs Border Security which @MarthaMcSally will provide and Krysten Sinema doesnt even think about. If it were up to Sinema - drugs crime and illegal traffic will be flowing into Arizona at an ever increasing pace. Vote for Martha!
If Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi gain the majority they will try to raise your taxes restore job-killing regulations shut down your coal mines and timber mills take away your healthcare impose socialism and ERASE your borders. VOTE for @MattForMontana and @GregForMontana! 
Landing in Montana now - at least everybody admits that my lines and crowds are far bigger than Barack Obamas... 
New York get out and VOTE for @JohnFasoNy a great and hardworking Congressman. We need Johns voice in D.C. His opponent just moved to the area - is Pro-Iran and Anti-Israel. Vote for John. Has my Strong Endorsement!
Get out and VOTE for @DeanHeller! 
A vicious accuser of Justice Kavanaugh has just admitted that she was lying her story was totally made up or FAKE! Can you imagine if he didnt become a Justice of the Supreme Court because of her disgusting False Statements. What about the others? Where are the Dems on this?
Thank you to @PeteHegseth and @KatiePavlich for your nice and very wise statements on the Economy. You both really get it! @foxandfriends
A vicious accuser of Justice Kavanough has just admitted that she was lying her story was totally made up or FAKE! Can you imagine if he didnt become a Justice of the Supreme Court because of her disgusting False Statements. What about the others? Where are the Dems on this?
Heading to Montana and Florida today! Everyone is excited about the Jobs Numbers - 250000 new jobs in October. Also wages rising. Wow!
Indiana Rally and Coach Bobby Knight were incredible last night. Packed House in Honor of Mike Braun for Senate. Mike will be a GREAT Senator. Dont forget to VOTE!
Congresswoman Maxine Waters was called the most Corrupt Member of Congress! @FoxNews If Dems win she would be put in charge of our Countrys finances. The beginning of the end!
Scott Perry of Pennsylvania is fantastic. He is strong on the Border Crime the Military our Vets and the Second Amendment. Scott has my Total Endorsement!
Massive #MAGARally??tonight in Indiana thank you. Everyone get out and ! 
Republicans believe our Country should be a Sanctuary for law-abiding Americans  not criminal aliens. And Republicans will ALWAYS stand with the HEROES of @ICEgov @CBP and Law Enforcement! 
In just 4 days the people of Indiana are going to send Mike @braun4indiana to the United States Senate so we can keep MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! Get out and VOTE!! 
I need the people of West Virginia to send a message to Chuck Schumer Maxine Waters Nancy Pelosi and the Radical Democrats by voting for Carol Miller and Patrick Morrisey!
Just landed - will see everyone in Southport Indiana shortly! #MAGARally?? 
THANK YOU WEST VIRGINIA! 
JOBS JOBS JOBS! #MAGA 
Fantastic #MAGARally??in West Virginia thank you. Everyone get out and VOTE for Patrick @MorriseyWV and @CarolMillerWV! 
Will be going to West Virginia and Indiana today TWO RALLIES! Dont tell anyone (big secret) but I will be bringing Coach Bobby Knight to Indiana. Hes been a supporter right from the beginning of the Greatest Political Movement in American History!
Wow! The U.S. added 250000 Jobs in October - and this was despite the hurricanes. Unemployment at 3.7%. Wages UP! These are incredible numbers. Keep it going Vote Republican!
I love you Missouri! Under Republican leadership America is BOOMING America is THRIVING and America is WINNING - because we are finally putting AMERICA FIRST. Get out and VOTE Josh @HawleyMO for the United States Senate! #MAGA 
Beautiful evening at a #MAGARally with great American Patriots. Loyal citizens like you helped build this Country and together we are taking back this Country  returning power to YOU the AMERICAN PEOPLE. Get out and ! 
Together we are Making America Safe and Great Again! 
On my way to Columbia Missouri for a #MAGARally. Look forward to seeing everyone soon! 
Illegal immigration affects the lives of all Americans. Illegal Immigration hurts American workers burdens American taxpayers undermines public safety and places enormous strain on local schools hospitals and communities...
....His opponent Jared Polis is weak on crime and weak on borders  could never do the job. Get out and VOTE  Walker has my Complete and Total Endorsement!
.@WalkerStapleton will be an extraordinary Governor for the State of Colorado. He is strong smart and has been successful at everything he has ever done....
Thank you to Rick Breckenridge and congratulations to Matt Rosendale (@MattForMontana). This is very big - see you in Montana on Saturday! Tickets: 
Just had a long and very good conversation with President Xi Jinping of China. We talked about many subjects with a heavy emphasis on Trade. Those discussions are moving along nicely with meetings being scheduled at the G-20 in Argentina. Also had good discussion on North Korea!
Thats because they treat me fairly!@FoxNews tops @CNN and @MSNBC combined in October cable news ratings 
Fantastic evening in Florida with great PATRIOTS at a beautiful #MAGARally. Get out and so we can continue MAKING AMERICA SAFE GREAT AGAIN! 
THANK YOU FLORIDA! Get out and VOTE Republican! #MAGAhttps://t.co/v3hpKOPBik
It is outrageous what the Democrats are doing to our Country. Vote Republican now! 
Yesterday in Pittsburgh I was really impressed with Congressman Keith Rothfus (far more so than any other local political figure). His sincere level of compassion grief and sorrow for the events that took place was in its own way very inspiring. Vote for Keith!
Harry Reid when he was sane agreed with us on Birthright Citizenship! 
Paul Ryan should be focusing on holding the Majority rather than giving his opinions on Birthright Citizenship something he knows nothing about! Our new Republican Majority will work on this Closing the Immigration Loopholes and Securing our Border!
Republicans will protect people with pre-existing conditions far better than the Dems!
Donald Trump has made good on his promises and it drives Democrats Crazy! Brad Blakeman @FoxNews
The World is using our laws to our detriment. They laugh at the Stupidity they see!
....Harry Reid was right in 1993 before he and the Democrats went insane and started with the Open Borders (which brings massive Crime) stuff. Dont forget the nasty term Anchor Babies. I will keep our Country safe. This case will be settled by the United States Supreme Court!
So-called Birthright Citizenship which costs our Country billions of dollars and is very unfair to our citizens will be ended one way or the other. It is not covered by the 14th Amendment because of the words subject to the jurisdiction thereof. Many legal scholars agree.....
Melania and I were treated very nicely yesterday in Pittsburgh. The Office of the President was shown great respect on a very sad solemn day. We were treated so warmly. Small protest was not seen by us staged far away. The Fake News stories were just the opposite-Disgraceful! 
Stock Market up more than 400 points yesterday. Today looks to be another good one. Companies earnings are great!
Melania and I were treated very nicely yesterday in Pittsburgh. The Office of the President was shown great respect on a very sad and solemn day. We were treaty so warmly. Small protest was not seen by us staged far away. The Fake News stories were just the opposite-Disgraceful!
Our military is being mobilized at the Southern Border. Many more troops coming. We will NOT let these Caravans which are also made up of some very bad thugs and gang members into the U.S. Our Border is sacred must come in legally. TURN AROUND!
The Caravans are made up of some very tough fighters and people. Fought back hard and viciously against Mexico at Northern Border before breaking through. Mexican soldiers hurt were unable or unwilling to stop Caravan. Should stop them before they reach our Border but wont!
Congressman @KevinYoder has fought hard for the People of Kansas. Highly respected strong on Crime the Border Military Vets and Second Amendment. Kevin has my Total Endorsement!
.@MikeDeWine will be a great Governor for the People of Ohio. He is an outstanding man who loves his State  and always produces big....
....Richard Cordray will let you down just like he did when he destroyed the government agency that he ran. Clone of Pocahontas thats not for Ohio. Mike has my Total Endorsement!
Just out: Consumer Confidence hits highest level since 2000.
If the Fed backs off and starts talking a little more Dovish I think were going to be right back to our 2800 to 2900 target range that weve had for the S&P 500. Scott Wren Wells Fargo.
The Stock Market is up massively since the Election but is now taking a little pause - people want to see what happens with the Midterms. If you want your Stocks to go down I strongly suggest voting Democrat. They like the Venezuela financial model High Taxes Open Borders!
Congressman Kevin Brady of Texas is so popular in his District and far beyond that he doesnt need any help - but I am giving it to him anyway. He is a great guy and the absolute King of Cutting Taxes. Highly respected by all he loves his State Country. Strong Endorsement!
Congressman Andy Barr of Kentucky who just had a great debate with his Nancy Pelosi run opponent has been a winner for his State. Strong on Crime the Border Tax Cuts Military Vets and 2nd Amendment we need Andy in D.C. He has my Strong Endorsement!
.@Erik_Paulsen @Jason2CD @JimHagedornMN and @PeteStauber love our Country and the Great State of Minnesota. They are winners and always get the job done. We need them all in Congress for #MAGA. Border Military Vets 2nd A. Go Vote Minnesota. They have my Strong Endorsement!
Congressman @DaveBratVA7th is a fighter who is doing a great job for Virginia and for our Country. Border Military Vets 2nd Amendment and all else. We need Dave in D.C. He has my Strong Endorsement!
.@Erik_Paulsen @Jason2CD @JimHagedornMN and @PeteStauber love our Country and the Great State of Minnesota. They are winners and always get the job done We need them all in Congress for #MAGA. Border Military Vets 2nd A. Go Vote Minnesota. They have my Strong Endorsement!
Congresswoman @cathymcmorris of Washington State is an incredible leader who is respected by everyone in Congress. We need her badly in D.C. to keep building on #MAGA. She has my Strong Endorsement!
Congressman @RodBlum of Iowa got a desperately needed Flood Wall for Cedar Rapids that was almost impossible to get. He makes a BIG difference for Iowa! Border Military Vets etc. We need Rod in D.C. He has my Strong Endorsement!
.@Denver4VA of the 5th District in Virginia is a popular guy who really knows how to get the job done! Really big help with Tax Cuts the Military and our great Vets. He has my Total Endorsement!
.@ErikPaulson @JasonLewis @JimHagedornMN and @PeteStauber love our Country and the Great State of Minnesota. They are winners and always get the job done We need them all in Congress for #MAGA. Border Military Vets 2nd A. Go Vote Minnesota. They have my Strong Endorsement!
Congressman @DenverRiggleman of the 5th District in Virginia is a popular guy who really knows how to get the job done! Really big help with Tax Cuts the Military and our great Vets. He has my Total Endorsement!
.@Troy_Balderson is doing a great job as Congressman from Ohio. We need him in D.C. Vote for Troy - He has my total Endorsement!
.@troybalderson is doing a great job as Congressman from Ohio. We need him in D.C. Vote for Troy - He has my total Endorsement!
So Revealing! 
I will be interviewed by Laura Ingraham tonight at 10:00 P.M. on @FoxNews
Check out tweets from last two days. I refer to Fake News Media when mentioning Enemy of the People - but dishonest reporters use only the word Media. The people of our Great Country are angry and disillusioned at receiving so much Fake News. They get it and fully understand!
CNN and others in the Fake News Business keep purposely and inaccurately reporting that I said the Media is the Enemy of the People. Wrong! I said that the Fake News (Media) is the Enemy of the People a very big difference. When you give out false information - not good!
Great job being done by Congressman Keith Rothfus of Pennsylvania. Thank you Keith!
In Florida there is a choice between a Harvard/Yale educated man named @RonDeSantisFL who has been a great Congressman and will be a great Governor - and a Dem who is a thief and who is Mayor of poorly run Tallahassee said to be one of the most corrupt cities in the Country!
Many Gang Members and some very bad people are mixed into the Caravan heading to our Southern Border. Please go back you will not be admitted into the United States unless you go through the legal process. This is an invasion of our Country and our Military is waiting for you!
Had a very good conversation with the newly elected President of Brazil Jair Bolsonaro who won his race by a substantial margin. We agreed that Brazil and the United States will work closely together on Trade Military and everything else! Excellent call wished him congrats!
....of Anger and Outrage and we will then be able to bring all sides together in Peace and Harmony. Fake News Must End!
There is great anger in our Country caused in part by inaccurate and even fraudulent reporting of the news. The Fake News Media the true Enemy of the People must stop the open obvious hostility report the news accurately fairly. That will do much to put out the flame...
The Fake News is doing everything in their power to blame Republicans Conservatives and me for the division and hatred that has been going on for so long in our Country. Actually it is their Fake Dishonest reporting which is causing problems far greater than they understand!
Just watched Wacky Tom Steyer who I have not seen in action before be interviewed by @jaketapper. He comes off as a crazed stumbling lunatic who should be running out of money pretty soon. As bad as their field is if he is running for President the Dems will eat him alive!
Thank you to Steve Rogers FBI Joint Terror Task Force (Ret) for his very kind and generous remarks about me and my relationship to Law Enforcement. @JudgeJeanine
Very interesting! 
Watching the Dodgers/Red Sox final innings. It is amazing how a manager takes out a pitcher who is loose dominating through almost 7 innings Rich Hill of Dodgers and brings in nervous reliever(s) who get shellacked. 4 run lead gone. Managers do it all the time big mistake!
All of America is in mourning over the mass murder of Jewish Americans at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh. We pray for those who perished and their loved ones and our hearts go out to the brave police officers who sustained serious injuries...
...This evil Anti-Semitic attack is an assault on humanity. It will take all of us working together to extract the poison of Anti-Semitism from our world. We must unite to conquer hate.
As you know earlier today there was a horrific shooting targeting and killing Jewish Americans at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh Pennsylvania. The shooter is in custody and federal authorities have been dispatched to support state and local police... 
Events in Pittsburgh are far more devastating than originally thought. Spoke with Mayor and Governor to inform them that the Federal Government has been and will be with them all the way. I will speak to the media shortly and make further statement at Future Farmers of America.
Watching the events unfolding in Pittsburgh Pennsylvania. Law enforcement on the scene. People in Squirrel Hill area should remain sheltered. Looks like multiple fatalities. Beware of active shooter. God Bless All!
Budd and Mark two great patriots for Congress! 
Martha McSally is a great warrior her opponent a Nancy Pelosi Wacko! 
Thank you Charlie! 
Good luck Mary! 
A big change is coming - dont want the Dems anymore! 
Trump Thunders at Media for Smearing His Supporters after Bomb Scares via @BreitbartNews
Fantastic evening in Charlotte North Carolina with great PATRIOTS. Get out and VOTE for @buddforcongress and @MarkHarrisNC9! #MAGARally replay: 
If you meet every day with optimism  if you confront every obstacle with determination  if you refuse to give up if you never quit if you face every challenge with confidence and pride  then there is no goal you cannot achieve and no dream beyond your reach! #YBLS2018 
It was my great honor thank you! 
Whether you are African-American Hispanic-American or ANY AMERICAN at all  you have the right to live in a Country that puts YOUR NEEDS FIRST! 
It is my great honor to be with so many brilliant courageous patriotic and PROUD AMERICANS. Seeing all of you here today fills me with extraordinary confidence in Americas future. Each of you is taking part in the Young Black Leadership Summit because you are true leaders... 
I want to applaud the FBI Secret Service Department of Justice the U.S. Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York the NYPD and all Law Enforcement partners across the Country for their incredible work skill and determination!
I would like to begin todays remarks by providing an update on the packages and devices that have been mailed to high-profile figures throughout our Country and a media org. I am pleased to inform you that law enforcement has apprehended the suspect and taken him into custody. 
I will be speaking at the Young Black Leadership Summit in 15 minutes where I will address the investigation into the bomb packages.
Republicans are doing so well in early voting and at the polls and now this Bomb stuff happens and the momentum greatly slows - news not talking politics. Very unfortunate what is going on. Republicans go out and vote!
Twitter has removed many people from my account and more importantly they have seemingly done something that makes it much harder to join - they have stifled growth to a point where it is obvious to all. A few weeks ago it was a Rocket Ship now it is a Blimp! Total Bias?
The United States has been spending Billions of Dollars a year on Illegal Immigration. This will not continue. Democrats must give us the votes to pass strong (but fair) laws. If not we will be forced to play a much tougher hand.
Funny how lowly rated CNN and others can criticize me at will even blaming me for the current spate of Bombs and ridiculously comparing this to September 11th and the Oklahoma City bombing yet when I criticize them they go wild and scream its just not Presidential!
The Service Members who died that day included brave young Marines just out of high school accomplished officers in the middle of their military careers and enlisted men who had served in theaters all over the world... 
In 1983 roughly 1800 Marines were in Beirut to keep the peace in a Nation torn apart by Civil War. Terrorists had bombed the U.S. Embassy earlier that year killing 63 people including 17 Americans... 
We are gathered together on this solemn occasion to fulfill our most reverent and sacred duty. 35 years ago 241 American service members were murdered in the terrorist attack on our Marine Barracks in Beirut Lebanon. Today we honor our fallen heroes... 
.@BrucePoliquin from Maine is a great Congressman. He is in a tough fight against a very liberal Nancy Pelosi Democrat. Bruce has helped bring JOBS back to his State and totally protects your Great Second Amendment. We need to keep Bruce in Washington. He has my Full Endorsement!
.@MikeDunleavyGov will make a fantastic Governor of Alaska. Mike is for Energy and Jobs is tough on Crime loves our Vets and our Great Second Amendment. Mike has my Complete and Total Endorsement!
.@LloydSmuckerPA is doing a great job for the people of Pennsylvania. He is strong on the Border Crime the Military our Vets and the 2nd Amendment. Lloyd has my Total Endorsement!
.@Troy_Balderson of Ohio is doing a great job as your Congressman already very respected in Washington. Get out and VOTE for Troy - we need him  great guy  has my Total Endorsement!
.@JohnChrin of Pennsylvania is fantastic. He is strong on the Border Crime the Military our Vets and the 2nd Amendment. He is a powerful vote for #MAGA and loves the Great State of Pennsylvania. Please get out and vote for John he has my Total and very Strong Endorsement!
...I agree with their stance 100% and the United States is likewise taking a very hard line on illegal immigration. The Prime Minister is working very hard on the economy of Italy - he will be successful!
Just spoke with Prime Minister @GiuseppeConteIT of Italy concerning many subjects including the fact that Italy is now taking a very hard line on illegal immigration...
Spoke with French President @EmmanuelMacron this morning. Discussed many topics including the very exciting upcoming visit to Paris where @FLOTUS Melania and I will attend the Armistice Day Centennial Commemoration!
To those in the Caravan turnaround we are not letting people into the United States illegally. Go back to your Country and if you want apply for citizenship like millions of others are doing!
Remarks by President Trump on a Year of Historic Progress and Action to Combat the Opioid Crisis 
The New York Times has a new Fake Story that now the Russians and Chinese (glad they finally added China) are listening to all of my calls on cellphones. Except that I rarely use a cellphone when I do its government authorized. I like Hard Lines. Just more made up Fake News!
A very big part of the Anger we see today in our society is caused by the purposely false and inaccurate reporting of the Mainstream Media that I refer to as Fake News. It has gotten so bad and hateful that it is beyond description. Mainstream Media must clean up its act FAST!
Brandon Judd of the National Border Patrol Council is right when he says on @foxandfriends that the Democrat inspired laws make it tough for us to stop people at the Border. MUST BE CHANDED but I am bringing out the military for this National Emergency. They will be stopped!
The so-called experts on Trump over at the New York Times wrote a long and boring article on my cellphone usage that is so incorrect I do not have time here to correct it. I only use Government Phones and have only one seldom used government cell phone. Story is soooo wrong!
Just leaving Wisconsin. @ScottWalker and @LeahVukmir are fantastic people badly needed for our Country! #MAGA 
Just arrived in Wisconsin to help two great people @ScottWalker and @LeahVukmir! 
The safety of the American People is my highest priority. I have just concluded a briefing with the FBI Department of Justice Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Secret Service... 
I agree wholeheartedly! 
Republicans will totally protect people with Pre-Existing Conditions Democrats will not! Vote Republican.
Brian Kemp will be a GREAT Governor of Georgia. Stacey Abrams will destroy the State. Sooooo important get out and VOTE for Brian!
We are a great Sovereign Nation. We have Strong Borders and will never accept people coming into our Country illegally!
For those who want and advocate for illegal immigration just take a good look at what has happened to Europe over the last 5 years. A total mess! They only wish they had that decision to make over again.
I agree with President Obama 100%! 
Billions of dollars are and will be coming into United States coffers because of Tariffs. Great also for negotiations - if a country wont give us a fair Trade Deal we will institute Tariffs on them. Used or not jobs and businesses will be created. U.S. respected again!
Congressman John Faso of New York has worked hard and smart. Strong on Crime Borders and our 2nd Amendment John is respected by all. Vote for John. He has my complete and total Endorsement!
The people of Puerto Rico are wonderful but the inept politicians are trying to use the massive and ridiculously high amounts of hurricane/disaster funding to pay off other obligations. The U.S. will NOT bail out long outstanding unpaid obligations with hurricane relief money!
Jay Webber of New Jersey running for Congress is doing a great job against a person who is looking to raise Taxes substantially. Jay wants big Tax Cuts and Changes. A Harvard graduate and father of seven Jay will be great for New Jersey and get the job done-and I will help!
Congressman Erik Paulsen of the Great State of Minnesota has done a fantastic job in cutting Taxes and Job Killing Regulations. Hard working and very smart. Keep Erik in Congress. He has my Strong Endorsement!
We send our deepest condolences to @RepLouBarletta and the entire Barletta family on the passing of his brother. Lou has been working so hard despite this terrible situation for the people of Pennsylvania. Our thoughts and prayers are with Lou and the entire Barletta family!
Todays Democrat Party would rather protect criminal aliens than AMERICAN CITIZENS - which is why the Democrats must be voted OUT of OFFICE! #JobsNotMobs 
At stake in this Election is whether we continue the extraordinary prosperity we have achieved - or whether we let the Radical Democrat Mob take a giant wrecking ball to our Country and our Economy! #JobsNotMobs 
We send our deepest condolences to Lou and the entire Barletta family - he has been working so hard despite this terrible situation for the people of Pennsylvania. Our thoughts and prayers are with you Lou!
THANK YOU HOUSTON TEXAS. Get out and ! #JobsNotMobs 
Massive crowds inside and outside of the @ToyotaCenter in Houston Texas. Landing shortly - see everyone soon! #MAGAhttps://t.co/0pWiwCq4MH 
Lets go FLORIDA! 
Last day to register to VOTE in Alabama California South Dakota and Wyoming! #JobsNotMobs 
WOW - thank you Houston Texas! I am departing @Andrews_JBA now. See you in a few hours!! #MAGA 
The Fake News Media has been talking about recent approval ratings of me by countries around the world including the European Union as being very low....
....I say of course theyre low - because for the first time in 50 years I am making them pay a big price for doing business with America. Why should they like me?  But I still like them!
America: the Cleanest Air in the World - BY FAR! 
Shock report: US paying more for illegal immigrant births than Trumps wall 
Big Night In Texas!!!!
Guatemala Honduras and El Salvador were not able to do the job of stopping people from leaving their country and coming illegally to the U.S. We will now begin cutting off or substantially reducing the massive foreign aid routinely given to them.
Every time you see a Caravan or people illegally coming or attempting to come into our Country illegally think of and blame the Democrats for not giving us the votes to change our pathetic Immigration Laws! Remember the Midterms! So unfair to those who come in legally.
Sadly it looks like Mexicos Police and Military are unable to stop the Caravan heading to the Southern Border of the United States. Criminals and unknown Middle Easterners are mixed in. I have alerted Border Patrol and Military that this is a National Emergy. Must change laws!
Congressman Tom Reed of New Yorks 23rd District has done a great job. He has my complete and total Endorsement!
Ron @RonDeSantisFL DeSantis had a great debate victory tonight against Andrew Gillum a mayor who presides over one of the worst run and most corrupt cities in Florida. Ron will build on the great job done by Governor Rick Scott. Gillum will make Florida the next Venezuela!
Facebook has just stated that they are setting up a system to purge themselves of Fake News. Does that mean CNN will finally be put out of business?
Best Jobs Numbers in the history of our great Country! Many other things likewise. So why wouldnt we win the Midterms? Dems can never do even nearly as well! Think of what will happen to your now beautiful 401-ks!
The Caravans are a disgrace to the Democrat Party. Change the immigration laws NOW!
Full efforts are being made to stop the onslaught of illegal aliens from crossing our Souther Border. People have to apply for asylum in Mexico first and if they fail to do that the U.S. will turn them away. The courts are asking the U.S. to do things that are not doable!
Watched North Dakotas Rep. Kevin Cramer easily win debate with Senator Heidi Heitkamp. Great job Kevin you will be a great Senator!
All levels of government and Law Enforcement are watching carefully for VOTER FRAUD including during EARLY VOTING. Cheat at your own peril. Violators will be subject to maximum penalties both civil and criminal!
Beautiful afternoon in Elko Nevada. Thank you! Get out and VOTE TODAY!! #MAGA#JobsNotMobs 
Heading to Nevada to help a man who has become a good friend Senator Dean Heller. He is all about #MAGA and I need his Help and Talent in Washington. Also Adam Laxalt will be a GREAT GOVERNOR and has my complete and total Endorsement. Winners Both!
Leaving Arizona after a fantastic Rally last night in Mesa honoring and for Martha @RepMcSally McSally. She is an inspiration will be a GREAT SENATOR for the people of Arizona. Her opponent is a Nancy Pelosi puppet really bad for State. Early Voting NOW! Will be back soon.
Rick Scott is known as easily one of the best Governors in the USA. Florida is setting records in almost every category of success. Amazing achievement-the envy of the World. Ron DeSantis will build on this success. His incompetent opponent will destroy Florida - next Venezuela!
Ron @RonDeSantisFL DeSantis is working hard. A great Congressman and top student at Harvard Yale Ron will be a record setting governor for Florida. Rick Scott gave him tremendous foundations to further build on. His opponent runs one of the worst most corrupt cities in USA!
Get out and Early Vote for Brian Kemp. He will be a GREAT GOVERNOR for the State of Georgia!
Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp will be a great governor. He has been successful at whatever he has done and has prepared for this very difficult and complex job for many years. He has my Strong Endorsement. His opponent is totally unqualified. Would destroy a great state!
If the Democrats would stop being obstructionists and come together we could write up and agree to new immigration laws in less than one hour. Look at the needless pain and suffering that they are causing. Look at the horrors taking place on the Border. Chuck Nancy call me!
Beautiful evening in Mesa Arizona with GREAT PATRIOTS - thank you! #MAGARally??replay: 
This was outside of the massive totally full hangar tonight in Mesa Arizona! #MAGA 
On my way - see you all shortly! 
WOW - Mesa Arizona! Look forward to joining everyone soon. Somethings happening!! #MAGA 
This is what it is all about for the Republican Party! #JobsNotMobs 
Beto ORourke is a total lightweight compared to Ted Cruz and he comes nowhere near representing the values and desires of the people of the Great State of Texas. He will never be allowed to turn Texas into Venezuela!
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo was never given or shown a Transcript or Video of the Saudi Consulate event. FAKE NEWS!
When referring to the USA I will always capitalize the word Country!
Congressman Andy Biggs is doing a great job for Arizona and our Country! 
Jon Tester says one thing to voters and does the EXACT OPPOSITE in Washington. Tester takes his orders form Pelosi Schumer. Tester wants to raise your taxes take away your 2A open your borders and deliver MOB RULE. Retire Tester Elect America-First Patriot Matt Rosendale!
Thank you Missoula Montana. Get out and VOTE for @MattForMontana and @GregForMontana!! #MAGAhttps://t.co/6XgaceUu1e 
The only thing keeping Tester alive is he has millions and millions of dollars from outside liberals and leftists who couldnt care less about our Country!
Will be landing soon. Looking forward to seeing our next Senator from Montana Matt Rosendale. He will represent our Country well far better than Jon Tester who will vote with Cryin Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi - never with us!
Prime Minister @AbeShinzo of Japan has been working with me to help balance out the one-sided Trade with Japan. These are some of the investments they are making in our Country - just the beginning! 
Thank you Mexico we look forward to working with you! 
Look forward to being there. Somethings happening! #MAGA 
Can you believe this and what Democrats are allowing to be done to our Country? 
All Republicans support people with pre-existing conditions and if they dont they will after I speak to them. I am in total support. Also Democrats will destroy your Medicare and I will keep it healthy and well!
See you tonight Missoula Montana! #MAGARally??https://t.co/2HZ66y4BS7
.@StateDept @SecPompeo outside of the West Wing after our meeting this morning in the Oval Office... 
Secretary of State Mike Pompeo returned last night from Saudi Arabia and Turkey. I met with him this morning wherein the Saudi situation was discussed in great detail including his meeting with...
...the Crown Prince. He is waiting for the results of the investigations being done by the Saudis and Turkey and just gave a news conference to that effect.
Congressman @DaveBratVA7th is one of the hardest working and smartest people in Washington. He is strong on the Border Crime the Military our Vets and the 2nd Amendment. He is a powerful vote for MAGA and loves the Great State of Virginia. Dave has my Total Endorsement!
....The assault on our country at our Southern Border including the Criminal elements and DRUGS pouring in is far more important to me as President than Trade or the USMCA. Hopefully Mexico will stop this onslaught at their Northern Border. All Democrats fault for weak laws!
....In addition to stopping all payments to these countries which seem to have almost no control over their population I must in the strongest of terms ask Mexico to stop this onslaught - and if unable to do so I will call up the U.S. Military and CLOSE OUR SOUTHERN BORDER!..
I am watching the Democrat Party led (because they want Open Borders and existing weak laws) assault on our country by Guatemala Honduras and El Salvador whose leaders are doing little to stop this large flow of people INCLUDING MANY CRIMINALS from entering Mexico to U.S.....
Ever since his vicious and totally false statements about Admiral Ron Jackson the highly respected White House Doctor for Obama Bush me Senator John Tester looks to be in big trouble in the Great State of Montana! He behaved worse than the Democrat Mob did with Justice K!
This afternoon it was my great honor to present @USMC Sergeant Major John Canley the Medal of Honor in the East Room of the @WhiteHouse! 
Congressman Neal Dunn (@DunnCampaign) of Florida has done an outstanding job at everything having to do with #MAGA. Now working hard on hurricane relief and rebuild. Strong on Crime strong on Borders loves our Military and our Vets. Neal has my highest Endorsement!
College educated women want safety security and healthcare protections  very much along with financial and economic health for themselves and our Country. I supply all of this far better than any Democrat (for decades actually). Thats why they will be voting for me!
President Donald J. Trump is Following Through on His Promise to Cut Burdensome Red Tape and Unleash the American EconomyRead more: 
Republicans must make the horrendous weak and outdated immigration laws and the Border a part of the Midterms!
Hard to believe that with thousands of people from South of the Border walking unimpeded toward our country in the form of large Caravans that the Democrats wont approve legislation that will allow laws for the protection of our country. Great Midterm issue for Republicans!
Network News gave Zero coverage to the Big Day the Stock Market had yesterday. @foxandfriends
August job openings hit a record 7.14 million. Congratulations USA!
AP headline was very different from my quote and meaning in the story. They just cant help themselves. FAKE NEWS!
Ted Cruz has done so much for Texas including massive cuts in taxes and regulations - which has brought Texas to the best jobs numbers in the history of the state. He watches carefully over your 2nd Amendment. ORourke would blow it all! Ted has long had my Strong Endorsement!
Watched the debate last night Beto ORourke who wants higher taxes and far more regulations is not in the same league with Ted Cruz what the great people of Texas stand for want. Ted is strong on Crime Border 2nd A loves our Military Vets Low Taxes. Beto is a Flake!
Trump could be the most honest president in modern history. When you look at the real barometer of presidential truthfulness which is promise keeping he is probably the most honest president in American history. Hes done exactly what he said he would do. Marc Thiessen WPost
Stock Market up 548 points today. Also GREAT jobs numbers!
Elizabeth Warren is being hammered even by the Left. Her false claim of Indian heritage is only selling to VERY LOW I.Q. individuals!
Anybody entering the United States illegally will be arrested and detained prior to being sent back to their country!
We have today informed the countries of Honduras Guatemala and El Salvador that if they allow their citizens or others to journey through their borders and up to the United States with the intention of entering our country illegally all payments made to them will STOP (END)!
I will be interviewed tonight by Trish Regan on @FoxBusiness at 8:00 P.M. right after the great Lou Dobbs!
WOW John James is making headway in Michigan. We are bringing jobs back to the State and the People of Michigan appreciate it. Debbie Stabenow has been no help if anything a major hindrance. John James is a star I hope the voters see it. Polls are tightening!
...during the call and told me that he has already started and will rapidly expand a full and complete investigation into this matter. Answers will be forthcoming shortly.
Just spoke with the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia who totally denied any knowledge of what took place in their Turkish Consulate. He was with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo...
REGISTER TO ! #MAGA 
Is it really possible that Bruce Ohr whose wife Nellie was paid by Simpson and GPS Fusion for work done on the Fake Dossier and who was used as a Pawn in this whole SCAM (WITCH HUNT) is still working for the Department of Justice????? Can this really be so?????
Conflict between Glen Simpsons testimony to another House Panel about his contact with Justice Department official Bruce Ohr. Ohr was used by Simpson and Steele as a Back Channel to get (FAKE) Dossier to FBI. Simpson pleading Fifth. Catherine Herridge. Where is Jeff Sessions?
Federal Judge throws out Stormy Danials lawsuit versus Trump. Trump is entitled to full legal fees. @FoxNews Great now I can go after Horseface and her 3rd rate lawyer in the Great State of Texas. She will confirm the letter she signed! She knows nothing about me a total con!
Incredible number just out 7036000 job openings. Astonishing - its all working! Stock Market up big on tremendous potential of USA. Also Strong Profits. We are Number One in World by far!
For the record I have no financial interests in Saudi Arabia (or Russia for that matter). Any suggestion that I have is just more FAKE NEWS (of which there is plenty)!
8X more new manufacturing jobs now than with Obama. @FoxNews @cvpayne
The United States has strongly informed the President of Honduras that if the large Caravan of people heading to the U.S. is not stopped and brought back to Honduras no more money or aid will be given to Honduras effective immediately!
Op-Ed praises Trump Administrations efforts at the Border. @FoxNews The Washington Examiner States Finally the government has taken steps to stop releasing unaccompanied minors to criminals and traffickers. This was done by the Obama Administration!
Thank you to the Cherokee Nation for revealing that Elizabeth Warren sometimes referred to as Pocahontas is a complete and total Fraud!
Now that her claims of being of Indian heritage have turned out to be a scam and a lie Elizabeth Warren should apologize for perpetrating this fraud against the American Public. Harvard called her a person of color (amazing con) and would not have taken her otherwise!
Pocahontas (the bad version) sometimes referred to as Elizabeth Warren is getting slammed. She took a bogus DNA test and it showed that she may be 1/1024 far less than the average American. Now Cherokee Nation denies her DNA test is useless. Even they dont want her. Phony!
TOGETHER WE WILL PREVAIL! 
Open enrollment starts today on lower-priced Medicare Advantage plans so loved by our great seniors. Crazy Bernie and his band of Congressional Dems will outlaw these plans. Disaster!
Just arrived in Florida. Also thinking about our GREAT Alabama farmers and our many friends in North and South Carolina today. We are with you!
On our way to Florida and Georgia!
Just spoke to the King of Saudi Arabia who denies any knowledge of whatever may have happened to our Saudi Arabian citizen. He said that they are working closely with Turkey to find answer. I am immediately sending our Secretary of State to meet with King!
Will be leaving for Florida and Georgia with the First Lady to tour the hurricane damage and visit with FEMA First Responders and Law Enforcement. Maximum effort is taking place everyone is working very hard. Worst hit in 50 years!
The crowds at my Rallies are far bigger than they have ever been before including the 2016 election. Never an empty seat in these large venues many thousands of people watching screens outside. Enthusiasm Spirit is through the roof. SOMETHING BIG IS HAPPENING - WATCH!
The only way to shut down the Democrats new Mob Rule strategy is to stop them cold at the Ballot Box. The fight for Americas future is never over! Ben Shapiro
Thank you to NBC for the correction! 
I will be interviewed on 60 Minutes tonight at 7:00 P.M. after NFL game. Enjoy!
Will be interviewed tonight by @LesleyRStahl on @60Minutes @CBSNews at 7:30 P.M. Eastern. Enjoy! 
Princess Eugenie of York was a truly beautiful bride yesterday. She has been through so much and has come out a total winner!
NBC News has totally and purposely changed the point and meaning of my story about General Robert E Lee and General Ulysses Grant. Was actually a shoutout to warrior Grant and the great state in which he was born. As usual dishonest reporting. Even mainstream media embarrassed!
Congratulations to Tucker Carlson on the great success of his book Ship of Fools. It just went to NUMBER ONE!
Big day! Pastor Andrew Brunson who could have spent 35 years in a Turkish prison was returned safely home to his family today. Met in Oval Office great people! Then off to Kentucky for a Rally for Congressman Andy Barr. Tremendous crowd spirit! Just returned to White House.
Thank you Kentucky! #MAGAhttps://t.co/iCUqrQ91gF 
On my way to Richmond Kentucky for a MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN rally at 7:00pmE. The crowds are once again massive. See everyone in a couple of hours! #MAGA 
WELCOME HOME PASTOR ANDREW BRUNSON! 
Heading to the Great State of Kentucky - Big Rally for Congressman Andy Barr - Fantastic guy need his vote for MAGA! Strong on Crime Tax Cuts Military Vets 2nd A. His opponent will NEVER vote for us only for Pelosi. Andy has my Strongest Endorsement!!! See you in Kentucky.
Highly respected Congressman Keith Rothfus (R) of Pennsylvania is in the fight of his life because the Dems changed the District Map. He must win. Strong on crime borders big tax reg cuts Military Vets. Opponent Lamb a Pelosi puppet-weak on crime. BIG ENDORSEMENT FOR KEITH
From a Turkish prison to the White House in 24 hours. Kristin Fisher of @FoxNews Very cool!
There was NO DEAL made with Turkey for the release and return of Pastor Andrew Brunson. I dont make deals for hostages. There was however great appreciation on behalf of the United States which will lead to good perhaps great relations between the United States Turkey!
Pastor Andrew Brunson released by Turkey will be with me in the Oval Office at 2:30 P.M. (this afternoon). It will be wonderful to see and meet him. He is a great Christian who has been through such a tough experience. I would like to thank President @RT_Erdogan for his help!
Happy 243rd Birthday to our GREAT @USNavy! #243NavyBday 
Beautiful MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN rally in Lebanon Ohio. Thank you! #ICYMI watch here: 
The GREAT football (and lacrosse) player Jim Brown outside the West Wing of the @WhiteHouse. He is also a tremendous man and mentor to many young people! 
Happy #NationalFarmersDay! With the recent #USMCA our GREAT FARMERS will do better than ever before!! 
Dont miss our GREAT @FLOTUS Melania on @ABC @ABC2020 tonight at 10pmE. Enjoy!
People have no idea how hard Hurricane Michael has hit the great state of Georgia. I will be visiting both Florida and Georgia early next week. We are working very hard on every area and every state that was hit - we are with you!
PROMISES MADE PROMISES KEPT! 
REGISTER TO VOTE! 
PASTOR BRUNSON JUST RELEASED. WILL BE HOME SOON!
My thoughts and prayers are with Pastor Brunson and we hope to have him safely back home soon!
So nice everyone wants Ivanka Trump to be the new United Nations Ambassador. She would be incredible but I can already hear the chants of Nepotism! We have great people that want the job.
Working very hard on Pastor Brunson!
Florida Highway Patrol Troopers are all en route to the Panhandle from all across the state of Florida - to help those affected by #HurricaneMichael. If you see them be sure to shake their hands and say THANK YOU! #LESM 
Thank you to @FEMA and all First Responders! #HurricaneMichael 
Thank you Jacksonville Sheriffs Office! #HurricaneMichael 
Massive overflow crowd tonight in Erie Pennsylvania. THANK YOU to everyone who came out and joined us. Together we are MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! 
Thank you Erie Pennsylvania! Remember to get out and VOTE! #MAGA 
Couldnt let these great people down. They have been lined up since last night - see you soon Pennsylvania! 
Departing the @WhiteHouse for Erie Pennsylvania. I cannot disappoint the thousands of people that are there - and the thousands that are going. I look forward to seeing everyone this evening.
We are with you Florida! ://t.co/HVVhSmBg7S 
Despite so many positive events and victories Media Reseach Center reports that 92% of stories on Donald Trump are negative on ABC CBS and ABC. It is FAKE NEWS! Dont worry the Failing New York Times didnt even put the Brett Kavanaugh victory on the Front Page yesterday-A17!
Walker Stapleton is running as the highly respected Republican Candidate for Governor of the Great State of Colorado. His credentials and talents are impeccable. He has my complete and total Endorsement!
THANK YOU IOWA NEBRASKA! VOTE VOTE VOTE! 
Beautiful evening in Iowa. GOD BLESS THE U.S.A.! #MAGA 
.@FLGovScott has been relentless in securing the funding to fix the algae problem from Lake Okeechobee - we will solve this! Congress must follow through on the Governments plan on the Everglades Reservoir. Bill Nelson has been no help!
President Donald J. Trump Approves Florida Emergency Declaration 
REGISTER TO VOTE! 
FLORIDA - It is imperative that you heed the directions of your State and Local Officials. Please be prepared be careful and be SAFE! #HurricaneMichael 
...Looks to be a Cat. 3 which is even more intense than Florence. Good news is the folks in the Pan Handle can take care of anything. @FEMA and First Responders are ready - be prepared! #HurricaneMichael
Hurricane on its way to the Florida Pan Handle with major elements arriving tomorrow. Could also hit in later stage parts of Georgia and unfortunately North Carolina and South Carolina again...
Big announcement with my friend Ambassador Nikki Haley in the Oval Office at 10:30am.
Will be going to Iowa tonight for Rally and more! The Farmers (and all) are very happy with USMCA!
Great evening last night at the White House honoring Justice Kavanaugh and family. Our country is very proud of them!
The paid D.C. protesters are now ready to REALLY protest because they havent gotten their checks - in other words they werent paid! Screamers in Congress and outside were far too obvious - less professional than anticipated by those paying (or not paying) the bills!
Great to see @AGPamBondi launch a cutting-edge statewide school safety APP in Florida today - named by Parkland Survivors. BIG PRIORITY and Florida is getting it done! #FortifyFL
Every day our police officers race into darkened allies deserted streets onto the doorsteps of the most hardened criminals. They see the worst of humanity they respond with the best of the American Spirit. Americas LEOs have earned the everlasting gratitude of our Nation! 
We thank you. We salute you. We honor you. And we promise you: we will ALWAYS have your BACK  now and FOREVER! #IACP2018 
Americas police officers have earned the everlasting gratitude of our Nation. In moments of danger despair you are the reason we never lose hope  because there are men women in uniform who face down evil stand for all that is GOOD and JUST and DECENT and RIGHT! #IACP2018 
It was my great honor to address the International Association of Chiefs of Police Annual Convention in Orlando Florida. Thank you! #IACP2018 #LESM 
Departing Washington D.C. for the International Association of Chiefs of Police Annual Convention in Orlando Florida. Look forward to seeing everyone soon! #IACP2018 
Christopher Columbuss spirit of determination adventure has provided inspiration to generations of Americans. On #ColumbusDay we honor his remarkable accomplishments as a navigator celebrate his voyage into the unknown expanse of the Atlantic Ocean. 
.@SecPompeo had a good meeting with Chairman Kim today in Pyongyang. Progress made on Singapore Summit Agreements! I look forward to seeing Chairman Kim again in the near future. 
You dont hand matches to an arsonist and you dont give power to an angry left-wing mob. Democrats have become too EXTREME and TOO DANGEROUS to govern. Republicans believe in the rule of law - not the rule of the mob. VOTE REPUBLICAN!
Beautiful evening in Topeka Kansas. VOTE VOTE VOTE! #MAGA 
Thank you Kansas - I love you! 
The crowd in front of the U.S. Supreme Court is tiny looks like about 200 people (most are onlookers) - that wouldnt even fill the first couple of rows of our Kansas Rally or any of our Rallies for that matter! The Fake News Media tries to make it look sooo big its not!
I applaud and congratulate the U.S. Senate for confirming our GREAT NOMINEE Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. Later today I will sign his Commission of Appointment and he will be officially sworn in. Very exciting!
I have asked Steve Daines our great Republican Senator from Montana to attend his daughter Annies wedding rather than coming to todays vote. Steve was ready to do whatever he had to but we had the necessary number. To the Daines Family congratulations-have a wonderful day!
Women for Kavanaugh and many others who support this very good man are gathering all over Capitol Hill in preparation for a 3-5 P.M. VOTE. It is a beautiful thing to see - and they are not paid professional protesters who are handed expensive signs. Big day for America!
Women for Kavanaugh and many others who support this very good man are gathering all over Capital Hill in preparation for a 3-5 P.M. VOTE. It is a beautiful thing to see - and they are not paid professional protesters who are handed expensive signs. Big day for America!
Very proud of the U.S. Senate for voting YES to advance the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh!
Just out: 3.7% Unemployment is the lowest number since 1969!
The very rude elevator screamers are paid professionals only looking to make Senators look bad. Dont fall for it! Also look at all of the professionally made identical signs. Paid for by Soros and others. These are not signs made in the basement from love! #Troublemakers
Beautiful evening in Rochester Minnesota. VOTE VOTE VOTE! 
Thank you Minnesota - I love you!
Just made my second stop in Minnesota for a MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN rally. We need to elect @KarinHousley to the U.S. Senate and we need the strong leadership of @TomEmmer @Jason2CD @JimHagedornMN and @PeteStauber in the U.S. House!
Congressman Bishop is doing a GREAT job! He helped pass tax reform which lowered taxes for EVERYONE! Nancy Pelosi is spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on his opponent because they both support a liberal agenda of higher taxes and wasteful spending!
U.S. Stocks Widen Global Lead 
Statement on National Strategy for Counterterrorism: 
Working hard thank you! 
This is now the 7th. time the FBI has investigated Judge Kavanaugh. If we made it 100 it would still not be good enough for the Obstructionist Democrats.
This is a very important time in our country. Due Process Fairness and Common Sense are now on trial!
Our countrys great First Lady Melania is doing really well in Africa. The people love her and she loves them! It is a beautiful thing to see.
The harsh and unfair treatment of Judge Brett Kavanaugh is having an incredible upward impact on voters. The PEOPLE get it far better than the politicians. Most importantly this great life cannot be ruined by mean despicable Democrats and totally uncorroborated allegations!
Wow such enthusiasm and energy for Judge Brett Kavanaugh. Look at the Energy look at the Polls. Something very big is happening. He is a fine man and great intellect. The country is with him all the way!
My thoughts and prayers are with the Florence County Sheriffs Office and the Florence Police Department tonight in South Carolina. We are forever grateful for what our Law Enforcement Officers do 24/7/365. 
Just spoke to President-Elect Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador of Mexico. Great call we will work well together!
I see it each time I go out to Rallies in order to help some of our great Republican candidates. VOTERS ARE REALLY ANGRY AT THE VICIOUS AND DESPICABLE WAY DEMOCRATS ARE TREATING BRETT KAVANAUGH! He and his wonderful family deserve much better.
Mexico Canada and the United States are a great partnership and will be a very formidable trading force. We will now because of the USMCA work very well together. Great Spirit!
Blowout numbers on New Jobs and separately Services. Market up!
Thank you to Congressman Tom Reed of New York for your wonderful comments on our great new Trade Deal with Mexico and Canada the USMCA. I have long ago given you my Full Endorsement and for good reason. Keep up the Great Work! @Varneyco
Thank you Governor Phil Bryant - it was my great honor to be there! #MAGA 
The Stock Market just reached an All-Time High during my Administration for the 102nd Time a presidential record by far for less than two years. So much potential as Trade and Military Deals are completed.
The Failing New York Times did something I have never seen done before. They used the concept of time value of money in doing a very old boring and often told hit piece on me. Added up this means that 97% of their stories on me are bad. Never recovered from bad election call!
Congressman @PeteSessions of Texas is a true fighter and patriot. Highly respected in D.C. by all he always gets what his district and our country wants and needs. Strong on Crime Border Military Vets and 2nd Amendment. Pete has my Full and Total Endorsement. A great guy!
Thank you Mississippi - Together we are MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! 
Today my Administration provided HISTORIC levels of funding to improve school safety through STOP School Violence grants  a top priority for @sandyhook. I am committed to keeping our children SAFE in their schools!
National wage growth is at the highest its been in nearly 17 months -- and according to a new study released by Glassdoor its not expected to slow down anytime soon.... 
GOD BLESS THE U.S.A.! #MAGA 
Thank you Mississippi - I love you! 
This is really an incredible time for our Nation - WE are RESPECTED AGAIN! 
USMCA Wins Praise as a Victory for American Industries and Workers 
Proud of our great First Lady - and she loves doing this! 
Yesterday it was my great honor to present the Medal of Honor to Ronald J. Shurer II for his actions on April 6 2008 when he braved enemy fire to treat multiple injured Soldiers. Read more: 
THE ONLY REASON TO VOTE FOR A DEMOCRAT IS IF YOURE TIRED OF WINNING!
Great reviews on the new USMCA. Thank you! Mexico and Canada will be wonderful partners in Trade (and more) long into the future.
Happy 7th birthday to Tristan a very special member of the Trump family!
WOW - THANK YOU TENNESSEE! 
Thank you Tennessee - I love you! 
News conference on the USMCA this morning at 11:00 - Rose Garden of White House.
Congratulations to Mexico and Canada!
....deficiencies and mistakes in NAFTA greatly opens markets to our Farmers and Manufacturers reduces Trade Barriers to the U.S. and will bring all three Great Nations together in competition with the rest of the world. The USMCA is a historic transaction!
.....deficiencies and mistakes in NAFTA greatly opens markets to our Farmers and Manufacturers reduce Trade Barriers to the U.S. and will bring all three Great Nations closer together in competition with the rest of the world. The USMCA is a historic transaction!
Late last night our deadline we reached a wonderful new Trade Deal with Canada to be added into the deal already reached with Mexico. The new name will be The United States Mexico Canada Agreement or USMCA. It is a great deal for all three countries solves the many......
Wow! Just starting to hear the Democrats who are only thinking Obstruct and Delay are starting to put out the word that the time and scope of FBI looking into Judge Kavanaugh and witnesses is not enough. Hello! For them it will never be enough - stay tuned and watch!
So if African-American unemployment is now at the lowest number in history median income the highest and you then add all of the other things I have done how do Democrats who have done NOTHING for African-Americans but TALK win the Black Vote? And it will only get better!
Like many I dont watch Saturday Night Live (even though I past hosted it) - no longer funny no talent or charm. It is just a political ad for the Dems. Word is that Kanye West who put on a MAGA hat after the show (despite being told no) was great. Hes leading the charge!
NBC News incorrectly reported (as usual) that I was limiting the FBI investigation of Judge Kavanaugh and witnesses only to certain people. Actually I want them to interview whoever they deem appropriate at their discretion. Please correct your reporting!
Thank you West Virginia - I love you! 
Heading to West Virginia now. Big Rally. Will be live on @FoxNews tonight. Long lines but will be great!
Senator Richard Blumenthal must talk about his fraudulent service in Vietnam where for 12 years he told the people of Connecticut as their Attorney General that he was a great Marine War Hero. Talked about his many battles of near death but was never in Vietnam. Total Phony!
Just started tonight our 7th FBI investigation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh. He will someday be recognized as a truly great Justice of The United States Supreme Court!
Judge Kavanaugh showed America exactly why I nominated him. His testimony was powerful honest and riveting. Democrats search and destroy strategy is disgraceful and this process has been a total sham and effort to delay obstruct and resist. The Senate must vote!
Join me this Saturday in Wheeling West Virginia at 7pmE! Tickets: 
Congressman Lee Zeldin is doing a fantastic job in D.C. Tough and smart he loves our Country and will always be there to do the right thing. He has my Complete and Total Endorsement!
China is actually placing propaganda ads in the Des Moines Register and other papers made to look like news. Thats because we are beating them on Trade opening markets and the farmers will make a fortune when this is over! 
Avenatti is a third rate lawyer who is good at making false accusations like he did on me and like he is now doing on Judge Brett Kavanaugh. He is just looking for attention and doesnt want people to look at his past record and relationships - a total low-life!
Jobless Claims fell to their lowest level in 49 years!
Consumer confidence hits an 18 year high close to breaking the all-time record. A big jump from last 8 years. People are excited about the USA again! We are getting Bigger and Richer and Stronger. WAY MORE TO GO!
The Democrats are playing a high level CON GAME in their vicious effort to destroy a fine person. It is called the politics of destruction. Behind the scene the Dems are laughing. Pray for Brett Kavanaugh and his family!
These law enforcement people took the law into their own hands when it came to President Trump. @LindseyGrahamSC
73rd Session of the United Nations General Assembly #UNGA 
Consumer confidence rose in September notching its highest level in about 18 years. The Consumer Board's index rose to 138.4 this month from 134.7 in August... 
Remarks by President Trump at a Luncheon Hosted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations 
Remarks by President Trump to the 73rd Session of the United Nations General Assembly 
Rush Limbaugh to Republicans: You can kiss the MIDTERMS goodbye if you dont get highly qualified Kavanaugh approved.
Thank you Dr. Jeffress! 
Thank you Mark! 
Will be speaking at the United Nations this morning. Our country is much stronger and much richer than it was when I took office less than two years ago. We are also MUCH safer!
Despite requests I have no plans to meet Iranian President Hassan Rouhani. Maybe someday in the future. I am sure he is an absolutely lovely man!
Republican Party Favorability is the highest it has been in 7 years - 3 points higher than Democrats! Gallup
The Democrats are working hard to destroy a wonderful man and a man who has the potential to be one of our greatest Supreme Court Justices ever with an array of False Accusations the likes of which have never been seen before!
REMEMBER THE MIDTERMS!
The Democrats are working hard to destroy a wonderful man and a man who has the potential to be one of our greatest Supreme Court Justices ever with an array of False Acquisitions the likes of which have never been seen before!
It was my great honor to welcome President @EmmanuelMacron of France to the United States here in New York City this evening! #UNGA 
It was my great honor to welcome President @AlsisiOfficial of Egypt to the United States this afternoon in New York City. Great meetings! #UNGA 
Joint Statement on the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement: 
Brett Kavanaugh and his wife Ashley will be interviewed tonight at 7pmE on @marthamaccallum @FoxNews. This is an outstanding family who must be treated fairly!
US-Korea Free Trade Agreement Signing Ceremony! 
It was my great honor to welcome and meet with President @moonriver365 Jae-in of South Korea today in New York City! #UNGA 
Today we commit to fighting the drug epidemic together! #UNGA 
Remarks by President Trump at Global Call to Action on the World Drug Problem Event #UNGA 
Prime Minster @AbeShinzo is coming up to Trump Tower for dinner but most importantly he just had a great landslide victory in Japan. I will congratulate him on behalf of the American people!
Going to New York. Will be with Prime Minister Abe of Japan tonight talking Military and Trade. We have done much to help Japan would like to see more of a reciprocal relationship. It will all work out!
Tiger is playing great. Looks like a big win could happen. Very exciting! @TigerWoods
New Economic Records being set on a daily basis - and it is not by accident!
GOD BLESS THE U.S.A.! 
Thank you Missouri - Together we are MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! 
Thank you Missouri - I love you!
Remarks by President Trump at the Signing of H.R. 5895: 
Promises Kept for our GREAT Veterans! 
Throughout American history the men and women of our Armed Forces have selflessly served our Country making tremendous sacrifices to defend our liberty. On National POW/MIA Recognition Day we honor all American Prisoners of War: 
Senator Feinstein and the Democrats held the letter for months only to release it with a bang after the hearings were OVER - done very purposefully to Obstruct Resist Delay. Let her testify or not and TAKE THE VOTE!
Senator Feinstein and the Democrats held the letter for months only to release it with a bang after the hearings were OVER - done very purposefully to Obstruct Resist Delay. Let her testify or not and TAKE THE VOTE!
....has been asked to review these documents on an expedited basis. I believe he will move quickly on this (and hopefully other things which he is looking at). In the end I can always declassify if it proves necessary. Speed is very important to me - and everyone!
I met with the DOJ concerning the declassification of various UNREDACTED documents. They agreed to release them but stated that so doing may have a perceived negative impact on the Russia probe. Also key Allies called to ask not to release. Therefore the Inspector General.....
The radical left lawyers want the FBI to get involved NOW. Why didnt someone call the FBI 36 years ago?
I will Chair the United Nations Security Council meeting on Iran next week!
I have no doubt that if the attack on Dr. Ford was as bad as she says charges would have been immediately filed with local Law Enforcement Authorities by either her or her loving parents. I ask that she bring those filings forward so that we can learn date time and place!
Judge Brett Kavanaugh is a fine man with an impeccable reputation who is under assault by radical left wing politicians who dont want to know the answers they just want to destroy and delay. Facts dont matter. I go through this with them every single day in D.C.
AMERICA IS WINNING AGAIN! 
Thank you Las Vegas Nevada - I love you! #MAGA 
MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
Landing in Las Vegas now for a Make America Great Again Rally supporting @DeanHeller and @DannyTarkanian. Also doing interview there with @seanhannity live on @FoxNews. Big crowd long lines. Will be great! #MAGA
On my way to Las Vegas Nevada. Look forward to seeing everyone tonight! #MAGA 
...North Korea to be identified as a result of my Summit with Chairman Kim. These HEROES are home they may Rest In Peace and hopefully their families can have closure.
Army Master Sgt. Charles H. McDaniel 32 of Vernon Indiana and Army Pfc. William H. Jones 19 of Nash County North Carolina are the first American remains from...
Congratulations to my good friend Prime Minister @AbeShinzo on his HUGE election victory in Japan. Im looking forward to many more years of working together. See you in New York next week!
.@JayWebberNJ is running for Congress in the 11th District of New Jersey. He is outstanding in every way. Strong on Borders loves our Military and our Vets. Big Crime fighter. Jay has my Full and Total Endorsement!
S&P 500 HITS ALL-TIME HIGH Congratulations USA!
I want to know where is the money for Border Security and the WALL in this ridiculous Spending Bill and where will it come from after the Midterms? Dems are obstructing Law Enforcement and Border Security. REPUBLICANS MUST FINALLY GET TOUGH!
....The thing thats lacking is we cant properly secure the Border because of the Democrats historic level of Obstruction. Senator David Perdue of Georgia.
We cant secure the Border because of the Democrats historic level of Obstruction. The Presidents fed up with this. His agenda is working. The economy is growing at twice the rate it did under Obama. Weve nominated and confirmed 68 Federal Judges 26 Court of Appeals Judges....
We protect the countries of the Middle East they would not be safe for very long without us and yet they continue to push for higher and higher oil prices! We will remember. The OPEC monopoly must get prices down now!
Financial and jobs numbers are fantastic. There are plenty of new high paying jobs available in our great and very vibrant economy. If you are not happy where you are start looking - but also remember our economy is only getting better. Vote in Midterms!
Great new book by Jason Chaffetz appropriately called The Deep State. Very interesting indeed!
Just returned to the White House from the Great States of North Carolina and South Carolina where incredible work is being done on the ongoing fight against hurricane Florence. Tremendous talent and spirit!
President Donald J. Trumps Administration is Providing Support to Those Impacted by Hurricane Florence 
North Korea recommits to denuclearization - weve come a long way. @FoxNews
....it was impossible - and then already its over 4% and I expect its going to grow faster and faster. Were just getting started here. Peter Ferrara former advisor to President Reagan. @foxandfriends
The recovery got started on Election Day 2016. It took Trumps Tax Cuts and Regulation Cuts to get the economy booming. Before that it was the worst and slowest economic recovery since the Great Depression. It took just 6 months for Trump to get to 3% even though they said.....
....returned home to the United States. Also North and South Korea will file a joint bid to host the 2032 Olympics. Very exciting!
Kim Jong Un has agreed to allow Nuclear inspections subject to final negotiations and to permanently dismantle a test site and launch pad in the presence of international experts. In the meantime there will be no Rocket or Nuclear testing. Hero remains to continue being........
The Supreme Court is one of the main reasons I got elected President. I hope Republican Voters and others are watching and studying the Democrats Playbook.
Today it was my great honor to welcome @prezydentpl Andrzej Duda of Poland to the @WhiteHouse! 
Today I took action to strengthen our Nations defenses against biological threats. For the first time in history the Federal Government has a National Biodefense Strategy to address the FULL RANGE of biological threats! 
Thank you to our great Coast Guard for doing such a tremendous job - thousands of lives being saved! 
...that FEMA our Military and our First Responders who are all unbelievable are a disaster and not doing a good job. This will be a total lie but thats what they do and everybody knows it!
Right now everybody is saying what a great job we are doing with Hurricane Florence  and they are 100% correct. But dont be fooled at some point in the near future the Democrats will start ranting...
Happy 71st Birthday to our GREAT United States Air Force! 
.....China has been taking advantage of the United States on Trade for many years. They also know that I am the one that knows how to stop it. There will be great and fast economic retaliation against China if our farmers ranchers and/or industrial workers are targeted!
China has openly stated that they are actively trying to impact and change our election by attacking our farmers ranchers and industrial workers because of their loyalty to me. What China does not understand is that these people are great patriots and fully understand that.....
....campaign which is unprecedented in our history. Congressman Peter King Really bad things were happening but they are now being exposed. Big stuff!
What will be disclosed is that there was no basis for these FISA Warrants that the important information was kept from the court theres going to be a disproportionate influence of the (Fake) Dossier. Basically you have a counter terrorism tool used to spy on a presidential...
Today as we celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month we share our gratitude for all the ways Hispanic-Americans make our country flourish and prosper. Today and every day we honor cherish and celebrate Hispanic-American Workers Families Students Businesses and Leaders... 
Just met John James of Michigan. He has every single quality to be your next Great Senator from Michigan. When the people of Michigan get to know John they will say he is a true star. Also distinguished Military and a Combat Vet! 
It was my great honor to host todays Inaugural Meeting of the Presidents National Council for the American Worker in the Roosevelt Room! Read more: 
Happy Constitution Day! 
Join me in Las Vegas Nevada at 7:00pm for a MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN RALLY! Tickets: 
Americans deserve to know the lowest drug price at their pharmacy but gag clauses prevent your pharmacist from telling you! I support legislation that will remove gag clauses and urge the Senate to act. #AmericanPatientsFirst
Immediately after Comeys firing Peter Strzok texted to his lover Lisa Page We need to Open the case weve been waiting on now while Andy (McCabe also fired) is acting. Page answered We need to lock in (redacted). In a formal chargeable way. Soon. Wow a conspiracy caught?
Lisa Page Testimony- NO EVIDENCE OF COLLUSION BEFORE MUELLER APPOINTMENT. @FoxNews by Catherine Herridge. Therefore the case should never have been allowed to be brought. It is a totally illegal Witch Hunt!
Our Steel Industry is the talk of the World. It has been given new life and is thriving. Billions of Dollars is being spent on new plants all around the country!
Tariffs have put the U.S. in a very strong bargaining position with Billions of Dollars and Jobs flowing into our Country - and yet cost increases have thus far been almost unnoticeable. If countries will not make fair deals with us they will be Tariffed!
A lot of small medium size enterprises are registering very good profit sometimes record profits-there stocks are doing very well low income workers are getting big raises. There are an awful lot of good things going on that werent during Pres. Obamas Watch. Peter Morici
Consumer Sentiment hit its highest level in 17 years this year. Sentiment fell 11% in 2015 an Obama year and rose 16% since the Election #TrumpTime!
Best economic numbers in decades. If the Democrats take control kiss your newfound wealth goodbye!
Watch @MariaBartiromo at 6:00 P.M. on @FoxBusiness. Russian Hoax the big topic! Mainstream Media often referred to as the Fake News Media hates to discuss the real facts!
Congratulations to all of our Mexican friends on National Independence Day. We will be doing great things together!
Just watched Sunday Morning Futures with @MariaBartiromo on @FoxNews. This show is MANDATORY watching if you want to understand the massive governmental corruption and the Russian Hoax. It will be rebroadcast this evening at 6:00 P.M. on @FoxBusiness. A must see!
FEMA First Responders and Law Enforcement are working really hard on hurricane Florence. As the storm begins to finally recede they will kick into an even higher gear. Very Professional!
The illegal Mueller Witch Hunt continues in search of a crime. There was never Collusion with Russia except by the Clinton campaign so the 17 Angry Democrats are looking at anything they can find. Very unfair and BAD for the country. ALSO not allowed under the LAW!
Exclusive -- Donald Trump Jr. to Obama: My Dad Fixed the Economy You Could Not via @BreitbartNews
Five deaths have been recorded thus far with regard to hurricane Florence! Deepest sympathies and warmth go out to the families and friends of the victims. May God be with them!
When will Republican leadership learn that they are being played like a fiddle by the Democrats on Border Security and Building the Wall? Without Borders we dont have a country. With Open Borders which the Democrats want we have nothing but crime! Finish the Wall!
While my (our) poll numbers are good with the Economy being the best ever if it werent for the Rigged Russian Witch Hunt they would be 25 points higher! Highly conflicted Bob Mueller the 17 Angry Democrats are using this Phony issue to hurt us in the Midterms. No Collusion!
.@DannyTarkanian of Nevada is a great friend who supports the Trump Agenda. He is Strong on Crime the Border and our under siege 2nd Amendment. Danny Loves our Military and our Vets. He has my total and complete Endorsement!
Congressman Keith Rothfus continues to do a great job for the people of Pennsylvania. Keith is strong on Crime the Border and our Second Amendment. Loves our Military and our Vets. He has my total Endorsement!
Congressman Pete Sessions of Texas is doing a great job. He is a fighter who will be tough on Crime and the Border fight hard for our Second Amendment and loves our Military and our Vets. He has my full and complete Endorsement!
Thank you Brock  it is my honor!We (@FEMA) have never had the support that we have had from this President. Administrator @FEMA_Brock
Thank you @nycemergencymgt! 
When President Obama said that he has been to 57 States very little mention in Fake News Media. Can you imagine if I said that...story of the year! @IngrahamAngle
....GWU Research to tell them how many people had died in Puerto Rico (how would they not know this?). This method was never done with previous hurricanes because other jurisdictions know how many people were killed. FIFTY TIMES LAST ORIGINAL NUMBER - NO WAY!
When Trump visited the island territory last October OFFICIALS told him in a briefing 16 PEOPLE had died from Maria. The Washington Post. This was long AFTER the hurricane took place. Over many months it went to 64 PEOPLE. Then like magic 3000 PEOPLE KILLED. They hired....
Great job FEMA First Responders and Law Enforcement - not easy very dangerous tremendous talent. America is proud of you. Keep it all going - finish strong!
My thoughts and prayers are with Evelyn Rodriguez this evening along with her family and friends. #RIPEvelyn 
The story of Puerto Rico is the rebuilding that has occurred. The President has done an extraordinary job of cleanup rebuilding electrical stuff and everything else. @EdRollins The people of Puerto Rico have one of the most corrupt governments in our country. @LouDobbs
They say all these people died in the storm in Puerto Rico yet 70% of the power was out before the storm. So when did people start dying? At what point do you recognize that what they are doing is a political agenda couched in the nice language of journalism? @GeraldoRivera
Keep up the great work - THANK YOU! 
We love the #CajunNavy - THANK YOU! #FlorenceHurricane2018 
Incredible job being done by FEMA First Responders Law Enforcement and all. Thank you!
Gina is Great! 
John Kerry had illegal meetings with the very hostile Iranian Regime which can only serve to undercut our great work to the detriment of the American people. He told them to wait out the Trump Administration! Was he registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act? BAD!
Senator Debbie Stabenow and the Democrats are totally against approving the Farm Bill. They are fighting tooth and nail to not allow our Great Farmers to get what they so richly deserve. Work requirements are imperative and the Dems are a NO. Not good!
Thank you @USNationalGuard! #HurricaneFlorence 
I was just briefed on Hurricane Florence. FEMA First Responders and Law Enforcement are supplied and ready. We are with you! 
Thank you @USCG! 
The Wall Street Journal has it wrong we are under no pressure to make a deal with China they are under pressure to make a deal with us. Our markets are surging theirs are collapsing. We will soon be taking in Billions in Tariffs making products at home. If we meet we meet?
.....This was done by the Democrats in order to make me look as bad as possible when I was successfully raising Billions of Dollars to help rebuild Puerto Rico. If a person died for any reason like old age just add them onto the list. Bad politics. I love Puerto Rico!
3000 people did not die in the two hurricanes that hit Puerto Rico. When I left the Island AFTER the storm had hit they had anywhere from 6 to 18 deaths. As time went by it did not go up by much. Then a long time later they started to report really large numbers like 3000...
Middle-Class Income Hits All-Time High! @foxandfriends And will continue to rise (unless the Dems get in and destroy what we have built).
.....It is a cesspool of corruption and the people who did this need to be brought to justice. @GreggJarrett
More text messages between former FBI employees Peter Strzok and Lisa Page are a disaster and embarrassment to the FBI DOJ. This should never have happened but we are learning more and more by the hour. Others were leaking like mad in order to get the President! ........
We are completely ready for hurricane Florence as the storm gets even larger and more powerful. Be careful!
The problem with banker Jamie Dimon running for President is that he doesnt have the aptitude or smarts is a poor public speaker nervous mess - otherwise he is wonderful. Ive made a lot of bankers and others look much smarter than they are with my great economic policy!
Tonight it was my great honor to host a Congressional Medal of Honor Society Reception at the @WhiteHouse! 
It is imperative that everyone follow local evacuation orders. This storm is extremely dangerous. Be SAFE! #HurricaneFlorence 
I can say as it relates to the Senate Intelligence Committee Investigation that we have NO hard evidence of Collusion. Richard Burr (R-NC) Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman
Hurricane Florence may now be dipping a bit south and hitting a portion of the Great State of Georgia. Be ready be prepared!
Hurricane Florence is looking even bigger than anticipated. It will be arriving soon. FEMA First Responders and Law Enforcement are supplied and ready. Be safe!
We got A Pluses for our recent hurricane work in Texas and Florida (and did an unappreciated great job in Puerto Rico even though an inaccessible island with very poor electricity and a totally incompetent Mayor of San Juan). We are ready for the big one that is coming!
The President has absolutely demonstrated no wrongdoing whatsoever that the Special Counsel has no evidence of any wrongdoing. In other words its time to end this Witch Hunt. @LouDobbs Russian collusion was just an excuse by the Democrats for having lost the Election!
Crazy Maxine Waters: After we impeach Trump well go after Mike Pence. Well get him. @FoxNews Where are the Democrats coming from? The best Economy in the history of our country would totally collapse if they ever took control!
....giving the information and causing the appointment of a Special C without having the courage of his own convictions..... Alan Dershowitz @TuckerCarlson In other words the whole thing was illegally and very unfairly set up?
You know whos at fault for this more than anyone else Comey because he leaked information and laundered it through a professor at Columbia Law School. Shame on that professor and shame on Comey. He snuck the information to a law professor who collaborated with him in........
The safety of American people is my absolute highest priority. Heed the directions of your State and Local Officials. Please be prepared be careful and be SAFE! 
Small Business Optimism Soars to Highest Level Ever | Breitbart via @BreitbartNews
17 years since September 11th!
Departing Washington D.C. to attend a Flight 93 September 11th Memorial Service in Shanksville Pennsylvania with Melania. #NeverForget 
Rudy Giuliani did a GREAT job as Mayor of NYC during the period of September 11th. His leadership bravery and skill must never be forgotten. Rudy is a TRUE WARRIOR!
ERIC Holder could be running the Justice Department right now and it would be behaving no differently than it is. @LouDobbs
New Strzok-Page texts reveal Media Leak Strategy. @FoxNews So terrible and NOTHING is being done at DOJ or FBI - but the world is watching and they get it completely.
We have found nothing to show collusion between President Trump Russia absolutely zero but every day we get more documentation showing collusion between the FBI DOJ the Hillary campaign foreign spies Russians incredible. @SaraCarterDC @LouDobbs
Just had calls with South Carolina Governor Henry McMaster North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper and Virginia Governor Ralph Northam regarding the incoming storm. Federal Government stands by ready to assist 24/7.
My people just informed me that this is one of the worst storms to hit the East Coast in many years. Also looking like a direct hit on North Carolina South Carolina and Virginia. Please be prepared be careful and be SAFE!
Was just briefed via phone by @DHSgov @SecNielsen and @FEMA @FEMA_Brock along with @VP Mike Pence and Chief of Staff John Kelly on incoming storm which is very dangerous. Heed the directions of your State and Local Officials - and know that WE are here for you. Be SAFE! 
Chuck Schumer is holding up 320 appointments (Ambassadors Executives etc.) of great people who have left jobs and given up so much in order to come into Government. Schumer and the Democrats continue to OBSTRUCT!
To the incredible citizens of North Carolina South Carolina and the entire East Coast - the storm looks very bad! Please take all necessary precautions. We have already began mobilizing our assets to respond accordingly and we are here for you! 
The Storms in the Atlantic are very dangerous. We encourage anyone in the path of these storms to prepare themselves and to heed the warnings of State and Local officials. The Federal Government is closely monitoring and ready to assist. We are with you!
President Trump would need a magic wand to get to 4% GDP stated President Obama. I guess I have a magic wand 4.2% and we will do MUCH better than this! We have just begun.
The Economy is soooo good perhaps the best in our countrys history (remember its the economy stupid!) that the Democrats are flailing lying like CRAZY! Phony books articles and T.V. hits like no other pol has had to endure-and they are losing big. Very dishonest people!
It is mostly anonymous sources in here why should anyone trust you? General Mattis General Kelly said its not true. @SavannahGuthrie @TODAYshow Bob Woodward is a liar who is like a Dem operative prior to the Midterms. He was caught cold even by NBC.
Im taking this book with a grain of salt everyone should do the same. Multiple sources but almost every one of them has come out and discredited the claims made by Woodward. You cannot take this book too seriously. Katelyn Caralle Washington Examiner
The White House is a smooth running machine. We are making some of the biggest and most important deals in our countrys history - with many more to come! The Dems are going crazy!
The White House is running beautifully. We are making some of the greatest and most important deals in our countries history - with many more to come. Big progress!
The Woodward book is a Joke - just another assault against me in a barrage of assaults using now disproven unnamed and anonymous sources. Many have already come forward to say the quotes by them like the book are fiction. Dems cant stand losing. Ill write the real book!
If the Democrats had won the Election in 2016 GDP which was about 1% and going down would have been minus 4% instead of up 4.2%. I opened up our beautiful economic engine with Regulation and Tax Cuts. Our system was choking and would have been made worse. Still plenty to do!
The GDP Rate (4.2%) is higher than the Unemployment Rate (3.9%) for the first time in over 100 years!
Melania and I wish all Jewish people Shana Tova and send our warmest greetings to those celebrating Rosh Hashanah and the start of the High Holy Days... 
...its commitment to denuclearize. @FoxNews This is a big and very positive statement from North Korea. Thank you To Chairman Kim. We will both prove everyone wrong! There is nothing like good dialogue from two people that like each other! Much better than before I took office.
North Korea has just staged their parade celebrating 70th anniversary of founding without the customary display of nuclear missiles. Theme was peace and economic development. Experts believe that North Korea cut out the nuclear missiles to show President Trump......
Wow NFL first game ratings are way down over an already really bad last year comparison. Viewership declined 13% the lowest in over a decade. If the players stood proudly for our Flag and Anthem and it is all shown on broadcast maybe ratings could come back? Otherwise worse!
Trump has set Economic Growth on fire. During his time in office the economy has achieved feats most experts thought impossible. GDP is growing at a 3 percent-plus rate. The unemployment rate is near a 50 year low. CNBC...Also the Stock Market is up almost 50% since Election!
If the U.S. sells a car into China there is a tax of 25%. If China sells a car into the U.S. there is a tax of 2%. Does anybody think that is FAIR? The days of the U.S. being ripped-off by other nations is OVER!
Ford has abruptly killed a plan to sell a Chinese-made small vehicle in the U.S. because of the prospect of higher U.S. Tariffs. CNBC. This is just the beginning. This car can now be BUILT IN THE U.S.A. and Ford will pay no tariffs!
Barack Obama talked a lot about hope but Donald Trump delivered the American Dream. All the economic indicators whats happening overseas Donald Trump has proven to be far more successful than Barack Obama. President Trump is delivering the American Dream. Jason Chaffetz
Barrack Obama talked a lot about hope but Donald Trump delivered the American Dream. All the economic indicators whats happening overseas Donald Trump has proven to be far more successful than Barrack Obama. President Trump is delivering the American Dream. Jason Chaffetz
Happy Anniversary! #ProudDeplorable 
So nice thank you both! 
The Dems have tried every trick in the playbook-call me everything under the sun. But if Im all of those terrible things how come I beat them so badly 306-223? Maybe theyre just not very good! The fact is they are going CRAZY only because they know they cant beat me in 2020!
Republicans are doing really well with the Senate Midterms. Races that we were not even thinking about winning are now very close or even leading. Election night will be very interesting indeed!
Our Social Media (and beyond) Stars @DiamondandSilk are terrific people who are doing really well. We are all very proud of them and their great success!
So true! Mr. Trump remains the single most popular figure in the Republican Party whose fealty has helped buoy candidates in competitive Republican primaries and remains a hot commodity among general election candidates. Nicholas Fandos @nytimes
Apple prices may increase because of the massive Tariffs we may be imposing on China - but there is an easy solution where there would be ZERO tax and indeed a tax incentive. Make your products in the United States instead of China. Start building new plants now. Exciting! #MAGA
We are breaking all Jobs and Economic Records but importantly our Country has TREMENDOUS FUTURE POTENTIAL. We have just begun!
To this point President Trumps achievements are unprecedented. @LouDobbs
Dave Hughes is running for Congress in the Great State of Minnesota. He will help us accomplish our America First policies is strong on Crime the Border our 2nd Amendmen Trade Military and Vets. Running against Pelosi Liberal Puppet Petterson. Dave has my Total Endorsement!
14 days for $28 MILLION - $2 MILLION a day No Collusion. A great day for America!
Unprecedented Jobs Growth Streak Continues as Wages Rise 
Under our horrible immigration laws the Government is frequently blocked from deporting criminal aliens with violent felony convictions. House GOP just passed a bill to increase our ability to deport violent felons (Crazy Dems opposed). Need to get this bill to my desk fast!
The Woodward book is a scam. I dont talk the way I am quoted. If I did I would not have been elected President. These quotes were made up. The author uses every trick in the book to demean and belittle. I wish the people could see the real facts - and our country is doing GREAT!
Matt Rosendale will be a Great Senator from a Great State Montana! He is a fighter who will be tough on Crime and the Border fight hard for our 2nd Amendment and loves our Military and our Vets. He has my full and complete Endorsement!
What was Nike thinking?
Thank you Montana I love you! 
MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! 
Getting ready to go on stage for Matt Rosendale who will be a great Senator. Jon Tester has let the people of Montana down does not deserve another six years. Matt is strong on Crime the Borders will save your Second Amendment from the onslaught. Loves our Military Vets!
Landing in Montana now to support Matt Rosendale for U.S. Senate! #MAGA 
Are the investigative journalists of the New York Times going to investigate themselves - who is the anonymous letter writer?
Look forward to seeing everyone in Montana tonight! #MAGA 
The record is quite remarkable. The President has faithfully followed the agenda he campaigned on in 2016. People should focus on the results and theyre extraordinary! James Freeman - Wall Street Journal
Cosumer confidence highest in 18 years Atlanta Fed forecasts 4.7 GDP manufacturing jobs highest in many years. Its the story of the Trump Administration the Economic Success thats unnerving his detractors. @MariaBartiromo
The Deep State and the Left and their vehicle the Fake News Media are going Crazy - they dont know what to do. The Economy is booming like never before Jobs are at Historic Highs soon TWO Supreme Court Justices maybe Declassification to find Additional Corruption. Wow!
Kim Jong Un of North Korea proclaims unwavering faith in President Trump. Thank you to Chairman Kim. We will get it done together!
Im draining the Swamp and the Swamp is trying to fight back. Dont worry we will win!
Does the so-called Senior Administration Official really exist or is it just the Failing New York Times with another phony source? If the GUTLESS anonymous person does indeed exist the Times must for National Security purposes turn him/her over to government at once!
TREASON?
The Failing New York Times! 
Today it was my honor to welcome the Amir of Kuwait to the @WhiteHouse! 
Join me tomorrow night at 7:00pm MDT in Billings Montana for a MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN RALLY! Get your tickets here: 
Thank you General Mattis book is boring untrue! 
Thank you General Kelly book is total fiction! 
Just like the NFL whose ratings have gone WAY DOWN Nike is getting absolutely killed with anger and boycotts. I wonder if they had any idea that it would be this way? As far as the NFL is concerned I just find it hard to watch and always will until they stand for the FLAG!
The Trump Economy is booming with help of House and Senate GOP. #FarmBill with SNAP work requirements will bolster farmers and get America back to work. Pass the Farm Bill with SNAP work requirements!
Almost everyone agrees that my Administration has done more in less than two years than any other Administration in the history of our Country. Im tough as hell on people if I werent nothing would get done. Also I question everybody everything-which is why I got elected!
Isnt it a shame that someone can write an article or book totally make up stories and form a picture of a person that is literally the exact opposite of the fact and get away with it without retribution or cost. Dont know why Washington politicians dont change libel laws?
Secretary Mattis Nukes Woodward Allegations 
Jim Mattis Calls Woodward Book 'Fiction': 'Product of Someone's Rich Imagination' via @BreitbartNews
The already discredited Woodward book so many lies and phony sources has me calling Jeff Sessions mentally retarded and a dumb southerner. I said NEITHER never used those terms on anyone including Jeff and being a southerner is a GREAT thing. He made this up to divide!
Sleepy Eyes Chuck Todd of Fake NBC News said its time for the Press to stop complaining and to start fighting back. Actually Chuck theyve been doing that from the day I announced for President. Theyve gone all out and I WON and now theyre going CRAZY!
The Woodward book has already been refuted and discredited by General (Secretary of Defense) James Mattis and General (Chief of Staff) John Kelly. Their quotes were made up frauds a con on the public. Likewise other stories and quotes. Woodward is a Dem operative? Notice timing?
Statement from White House @PressSec Sarah Sanders: 
Statement from White House Chief of Staff General John Kelly: 
Statement from Secretary of Defense James Mattis: 
Judge Brett Kavanaugh is an Exceptionally Qualified and Deserving Nominee for the Supreme Court 
Paul Cook is a decorated Marine Corps Veteran who loves and supports our Military and Vets. He is Strong on Crime the Border and supported Tax Cuts for the people of California. Paul has my total and complete Endorsement!
Pledge to Americas Workers 
....looking to inflict pain and embarrassment to one of the most highly renowned jurists to ever appear before Congress. So sad to see!
The Brett Kavanaugh hearings for the future Justice of the Supreme Court are truly a display of how mean angry and despicable the other side is. They will say anything and are only....
Jon Kyl will be an extraordinary Senator representing an extraordinary state Arizona. I look forward to working with him!
Everyone in the path of #Gordon please heed the advice of State and local officials and follow @NHC_Atlantic for updates. The Federal Government stands ready to assist. Be safe! 
NBC FAKE NEWS which is under intense scrutiny over their killing the Harvey Weinstein story is now fumbling around making excuses for their probably highly unethical conduct. I have long criticized NBC and their journalistic standards-worse than even CNN. Look at their license?
President Bashar al-Assad of Syria must not recklessly attack Idlib Province. The Russians and Iranians would be making a grave humanitarian mistake to take part in this potential human tragedy. Hundreds of thousands of people could be killed. Dont let that happen!
According to the Failing New York Times the FBI started a major effort to flip Putin loyalists in 2014-2016. It wasnt about Trump he wasnt even close to a candidate yet. Rigged Witch Hunt!
I see that John Kerry the father of the now terminated Iran deal is thinking of running for President. I should only be so lucky - although the field that is currently assembling looks really good - FOR ME!
....The Democrats none of whom voted for Jeff Sessions must love him now. Same thing with Lyin James Comey. The Dems all hated him wanted him out thought he was disgusting - UNTIL I FIRED HIM! Immediately he became a wonderful man a saint like figure in fact. Really sick!
Two long running Obama era investigations of two very popular Republican Congressmen were brought to a well publicized charge just ahead of the Mid-Terms by the Jeff Sessions Justice Department. Two easy wins now in doubt because there is not enough time. Good job Jeff......
The U.S. is respected again! 
Richard Trumka the head of the AFL-CIO represented his union poorly on television this weekend. Some of the things he said were so against the working men and women of our country and the success of the U.S. itself that it is easy to see why unions are doing so poorly. A Dem!
The Worker in America is doing better than ever before. Celebrate Labor Day!
Happy Labor Day! Our country is doing better than ever before with unemployment setting record lows. The U.S. has tremendous upside potential as we go about fixing some of the worst Trade Deals ever made by any country in the world. Big progress being made!
Richard Trumka the head of the AFL-CIO represented his union poorly on television this weekend. Some of the things he said were so againt the working men and women of our country and the success of the U.S. itself that it is easy to see why unions are doing so poorly. A Dem!
....The fact is that African/American unemployment is now the lowest in the history of our country. Same with Asian Hispanic and almost every other group. The Democrats have been all talk and no action. My Administration has already produced like no other and everyone sees it!
Tiger Woods showed great class in the way he answered the question about the Office of the Presidency and me. Now they say the so-called left is angry at him. So sad but the center right loves Tiger Kanye George Foreman Jim Brown so many other greats even more.......
There is no possible way the Trump Tower meeting between Don Trump jr and a couple of Russians who have very deep connections to both the Clintons Fusion GPS where no information on the Clintons was exchanged is a crime. Dems are blinded by their hatred of Trump. Bongino
No information was ever given by the Trump Team to Russia yet the Hillary Clinton campaign paid for information from Kremlin sources and just washed it through an intermediary Christopher Steele. Jesse Waters
....positions of power. Thats part of the story of the Russia Hoax. Christopher Steele is on the payroll of Hillary Clinton the FBI when they fired him for lying they continued to use him. Violation of FBI regulations. Kept trying to verify the unverifiable. @GreggJarrett
Theres no fairness here if youre a Democrat or a friend of Hillary you get immunity or off scott free. If youre connected to Donald Trump you get people like Robert Mueller Andrew Weissman and his team of partisans coming after you with a vengeance and abusing their....
We shouldnt have to buy our friends with bad Trade Deals and Free Military Protection!
MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!
No Deal! Trade Talks with Canada Conclude for the Week with No Agreement | Breitbart via @BreitbartNews
....Remember NAFTA was one of the WORST Trade Deals ever made. The U.S. lost thousands of businesses and millions of jobs. We were far better off before NAFTA - should never have been signed. Even the Vat Tax was not accounted for. We make new deal or go back to pre-NAFTA!
There is no political necessity to keep Canada in the new NAFTA deal. If we dont make a fair deal for the U.S. after decades of abuse Canada will be out. Congress should not interfere w/ these negotiations or I will simply terminate NAFTA entirely we will be far better off...
There is no political necessity to keep Canada in the new NAFTA deal. If we dont make a fair deal for the U.S. after decade of abuse Canada will be out. Congress should not interfere with these negotiations or I will simply terminate NAFTA entirely we will be far better off..
....Donald Trump and now we find out that there wasnt even a hearing - that Donald Trumps 4th Amendment right to privacy was signed away...and someone in there is swearing that this stuff is true when it wasnt? This is the scandal here - a police state. Dan Bongino
You have a Fake Dossier gathered by Steele paid by the Clinton team to get information on Trump. The Dossier is Fake nothing in it has been verified. It then filters into our American court system in order to spy on Barrack Obama and Hillary Clintons political opponent......
....of the DOJ FBI are completely out to lunch in terms of exposing and holding those accountable who are responsible for that corruption. @TomFitton @JudicialWatch
Report: There were no FISA hearings held over Spy documents.It is astonishing that the FISA courts couldnt hold hearings on Spy Warrants targeting Donald Trump. It isnt about Carter Page its about the Trump Campaign. Youve got corruption at the DOJ FBI. The leadership....
I love Canada but theyve taken advantage of our Country for many years!
I think today what has happened is that news reporting has become part of the adversary system. Alan Dershowitz It has become tainted and corrupt! DJT
Still cant believe that Bloomberg violated a firm OFF THE RECORD statement. Will they put out an apology?
Great day in North Carolina where Republicans will do very well!
The ABC/Washington Post Poll was by far the least accurate one 2 weeks out from the 2016 Election. I call it a suppression poll - but by Election Day they brought us out of shame to about even. They will never learn!
.@Rasmussen_Poll just came out at 48% approval rate despite the constant and intense Fake News. Higher than Election Day and higher than President Obama. Rasmussen was one of the most accurate Election Day polls!
President Donald J. Trump is Strengthening Retirement Security for American Workers 
Wow I made OFF THE RECORD COMMENTS to Bloomberg concerning Canada and this powerful understanding was BLATANTLY VIOLATED. Oh well just more dishonest reporting. I am used to it. At least Canada knows where I stand!
I will be doing a major rally for Senator Ted Cruz in October. Im picking the biggest stadium in Texas we can find. As you know Ted has my complete and total Endorsement. His opponent is a disaster for Texas - weak on Second Amendment Crime Borders Military and Vets!
Thank you Indiana I love you!
Throwback Thursday! #MAGA 
Kevin Stitt ran a great winning campaign against a very tough opponent in Oklahoma. Kevin is a very successful businessman who will be a fantastic Governor. He is strong on Crime Borders the 2nd Amendment loves our Military Vets. He has my complete and total Endorsement!
CNN is working frantically to find their source. Look hard because it doesnt exist. Whatever was left of CNNs credibility is now gone!
Will be going to Evansville Indiana tonight for a big crowd rally with Mike Braun a very successful businessman who is campaigning to be Indianas next U.S. Senator. He is strong on Crime Borders the 2nd Amendment and loves our Military Vets. Will be a big night!
I am very excited about the person who will be taking the place of Don McGahn as White House Counsel! I liked Don but he was NOT responsible for me not firing Bob Mueller or Jeff Sessions. So much Fake Reporting and Fake News!
The Rigged Russia Witch Hunt did not come into play even a little bit with respect to my decision on Don McGahn!
Wow Nellie Ohr Bruce Ohrs wife is a Russia expert who is fluent in Russian. She worked for Fusion GPS where she was paid a lot. Collusion! Bruce was a boss at the Department of Justice and is unbelievably still there!
I am very excited about the person who will be taking the place of Don McGahn as White House Councel! I liked Don but he was NOT responsible for me not firing Bob Mueller or Jeff Sessions. So much Fake Reporting and Fake News!
The only thing James Comey ever got right was when he said that President Trump was not under investigation!
Ivanka Trump Jared Kushner had NOTHING to do with the so called pushing out of Don McGahn.The Fake News Media has it purposelyso wrong! They love to portray chaos in the White House when they know that chaos doesnt exist-just a smooth running machine with changing parts!
The news from the Financial Markets is even better than anticipated. For all of you that have made a fortune in the markets or seen your 401ks rise beyond your wildest expectations more good news is coming!
I just cannot state strongly enough how totally dishonest much of the Media is. Truth doesnt matter to them they only have their hatred agenda. This includes fake books which come out about me all the time always anonymous sources and are pure fiction. Enemy of the People!
Whats going on at @CNN is happening to different degrees at other networks - with @NBCNews being the worst. The good news is that Andy Lack(y) is about to be fired(?) for incompetence and much worse. When Lester Holt got caught fudging my tape on Russia they were hurt badly!
The hatred and extreme bias of me by @CNN has clouded their thinking and made them unable to function. But actually as I have always said this has been going on for a long time. Little Jeff Z has done a terrible job his ratings suck AT&T should fire him to save credibility!
Watch: Kanye West Says Trump Wants to Be the Greatest President for Black Americans via @BreitbartNews
...charge of the FISA court. He should direct the Presiding Judge Rosemary Collier to hold a hearing haul all of these people from the DOJ FBI in there if she finds there were crimes committed and there were there should be a criminal referral by her.... @GreggJarrett
Ohr told the FBI it (the Fake Dossier) wasnt true it was a lie and the FBI was determined to use it anyway to damage Trump and to perpetrate a fraud on the court to spy on the Trump campaign. This is a fraud on the court. The Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court is in......
Lanny Davis admits being anonymous source in CNN Report. @BretBaier Oh well so much for CNN saying it wasnt Lanny. No wonder their ratings are so low its FAKE NEWS!
CNN is being torn apart from within based on their being caught in a major lie and refusing to admit the mistake. Sloppy @carlbernstein a man who lives in the past and thinks like a degenerate fool making up story after story is being laughed at all over the country! Fake News
...of money on joint U.S.-South Korea war games. Besides the President can instantly start the joint exercises again with South Korea and Japan if he so chooses. If he does they will be far bigger than ever before. As for the U.S.China trade disputes and other...
...differences they will be resolved in time by President Trump and Chinas great President Xi Jinping. Their relationship and bond remain very strong.
...considerable aid including money fuel fertilizer and various other commodities. This is not helpful! Nonetheless the President believes that his relationship with Kim Jong Un is a very good and warm one and there is no reason at this time to be spending large amounts...
STATEMENT FROM THE WHITE HOUSEPresident Donald J. Trump feels strongly that North Korea is under tremendous pressure from China because of our major trade disputes with the Chinese Government. At the same time we also know that China is providing North Korea with...
How the hell is Bruce Ohr still employed at the Justice Department? Disgraceful! Witch Hunt!
Consumer Confidence Index just out is the HIGHEST IN 18 YEARS! Also GDP revised upward to 4.2 from 4.1. Our country is doing great!
White House Counsel Don McGahn will be leaving his position in the fall shortly after the confirmation (hopefully) of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the United States Supreme Court. I have worked with Don for a long time and truly appreciate his service!
Martha McSally is an extraordinary woman. She was a very talented fighter jet pilot and is now a highly respected member of Congress. She is Strong on Crime the Border and our under siege 2nd Amendment. Loves our Military and our Vets. Has my total and complete Endorsement!
When you see anonymous source stop reading the story it is fiction!
Anonymous Sources are really starting to BURN the media. @FoxNews The fact is that many anonymous sources dont even exist. They are fiction made up by the Fake News reporters. Look at the lie that Fake CNN is now in. They got caught red handed! Enemy of the People!
Big Election Wins last night! The Republican Party will MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! Actually it is happening faster than anybody thought possible! It is morphing into KEEP AMERICA GREAT!
Hillary Clinton and the DNC paid for information from the Russian government to use against her government - theres no doubt about that! @TuckerCarlson
The Obama people did something thats never been done...They spied on a rival presidential campaign. Would it be OK if Trump did it next? I am losing faith that our system is on the level. Im beginning to think it is rotten corrupt. Scary stuff Obama did. @TuckerCarlson DOJ
Not only did Congressman Ron DeSantis easily win the Republican Primary but his opponent in November is his biggest dream....a failed Socialist Mayor named Andrew Gillum who has allowed crime many other problems to flourish in his city. This is not what Florida wants or needs!
Martha McSally running in the Arizona Primary for U.S. Senate was endorsed by rejected Senator Jeff Flake....and turned it down - a first! Now Martha a great U.S. Military fighter jet pilot and highly respected member of Congress WINS BIG. Congratulations and on to November!
Hillary Clintons Emails many of which are Classified Information got hacked by China. Next move better be by the FBI DOJ or after all of their other missteps (Comey McCabe Strzok Page Ohr FISA Dirty Dossier etc.) their credibility will be forever gone!
New Poll - A majority of Americans think that John Brennan and James Comey should have their Security Clearances Revoked. Not surprised! @FoxNews
Our new Trade Deal with Mexico focuses on FARMERS GROWTH for our country tearing down TRADE BARRIERS JOBS and having companies continue to POUR BACK INTO OUR COUNTRY. It will be a big hit!
Add the 2026 World Cup to our long list of accomplishments!
Report just out: China hacked Hillary Clintons private Email Server. Are they sure it wasnt Russia (just kidding!)? What are the odds that the FBI and DOJ are right on top of this? Actually a very big story. Much classified information!
Congratulations to Governor Rick Scott of Florida on his conclusive Republican Primary Win. He will be a great Senator!
Such a fantastic win for Ron DeSantis and the people of the Great State of Florida. Ron will be a fantastic Governor. On to November!
Consumer confidence pops in August to highest level since October 2000 
....results on Trump News are from National Left-Wing Media very dangerous. Google others are suppressing voices of Conservatives and hiding information and news that is good. They are controlling what we can cannot see. This is a very serious situation-will be addressed!
Google search results for Trump News shows only the viewing/reporting of Fake News Media. In other words they have it RIGGED for me others so that almost all stories news is BAD. Fake CNN is prominent. Republican/Conservative Fair Media is shut out. Illegal? 96% of....
I smile at Senators and others talking about how good free trade is for the U.S. What they dont say is that we lose Jobs and over 800 Billion Dollars a year on really dumb Trade Deals....and these same countries Tariff us to death. These lawmakers are just fine with this!
NASDAQ has just gone above 8000 for the first time in history!
President Trump has done more for minority groups in this country than any president in decades. @LouDobbs
....results on Trump News are from National Left-Wing Media very dangerous. Google others are suppressing voices of Conservatives and hiding information and news that is good. They are controlling what we can cannot see. This is a very serious situation-will be addressed!
Google search results for Trump News shows only the viewing/reporting of Fake New Media. In other words they have it RIGGED for me others so that almost all stories news is BAD. Fake CNN is prominent. Republican/Conservative Fair Media is shut out. Illegal? 96% of...
VOTE FOR RON! 
.@FLOTUS Melania and I were honored to welcome the President of the Republic of Kenya @UKenyatta and Mrs. Margaret Kenyatta to the @WhiteHouse today! 
United States-Mexico Trade Agreement: 
Governor Doug Ducey of Arizona is doing a great job. It would be really nice to show your support tomorrow by voting for him in Tuesdays Primary. Doug is strong on Crime the Border and our Second Amendment. Loves our Military our Vets. He has my full and complete Endorsement.
Congressman Ron DeSantis is a special person who has done an incredible job. He is running in Tuesdays Primary for Governor of Florida.Strong on Crime Borders and wants Low Taxes. He will be a great Governor and has my full and total Endorsement!
Rick Scott of Florida is doing a fantastic job as Governor. Jobs are pouring into the State and its economic health is better than ever before. He is strong on Crime Borders and loves our Military and Vets. Vote for Rick on Tuesday!
A big deal looking good with Mexico!
The Fake News Media worked hard to get Tiger Woods to say something that he didnt want to say. Tiger wouldnt play the game - he is very smart. More importantly he is playing great golf again!
Thank you to the great @JimBrownNFL32 perhaps the greatest running back of all time for your wonderful words and support. Since our meeting in New York African-American UNEMPLOYMENT has reached the LOWEST LEVEL IN HISTORY. You get it!
Over 90% approval rating for your all time favorite (I hope) President within the Republican Party and 52% overall. This despite all of the made up stories by the Fake News Media trying endlessly to make me look as bad and evil as possible. Look at the real villains please!
Mainstream Media tries to rewrite history to credit Obama for Trump accomplishments. Since President Trump took office the economy is booming. The stronger the economy gets the more desperate his critics are. O had weakest recovery since Great Depression. @WashTimes
Fantastic numbers on consumer spending released on Friday. Stock Market hits all time high!
...And it will get as I have always said much better from even here! 
My deepest sympathies and respect go out to the family of Senator John McCain. Our hearts and prayers are with you!
Stock Market hit all time high on Friday. Congratulations U.S.A.!
Our relationship with Mexico is getting closer by the hour. Some really good people within both the new and old government and all working closely together....A big Trade Agreement with Mexico could be happening soon!
The FBI looked at less than 1% of Crookeds Emails!
The FBI only looked at 3000 of 675000 Crooked Hillary Clinton Emails. They purposely didnt look at the disasters. This news is just out. @FoxNews
Big story out that the FBI ignored tens of thousands of Crooked Hillary Emails many of which are REALLY BAD. Also gave false election info. I feel sure that we will soon be getting to the bottom of all of this corruption. At some point I may have to get involved!
.@LindseyGrahamSC Every President deserves an Attorney General they have confidence in. I believe every President has a right to their Cabinet these are not lifetime appointments. You serve at the pleasure of the President.
Jeff Sessions said he wouldnt allow politics to influence him only because he doesnt understand what is happening underneath his command position. Highly conflicted Bob Mueller and his gang of 17 Angry Dems are having a field day as real corruption goes untouched. No Collusion!
Michaels Cohens attorney clarified the record saying his client does not know if President Trump knew about the Trump Tower meeting (out of which came nothing!). The answer is that I did NOT know about the meeting. Just another phony story by the Fake News Media!
Happy birthday Vince you are truly one of the greats! 
Great #StateDinner2018 in Ohio tonight! Together we are MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! 
Great to see the Senate working on solutions to end the secrecy around ridiculously high drug prices something I called for in my drug pricing Blueprint. Will now work with the House to help American patients! #AmericanPatientsFirst
Congratulations to new Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. There are no greater friends than the United States and Australia!
I spoke with Governor David Ige of Hawaii today to express our full support for the people of Hawaii as the State is impacted by #HurricaneLane. The Federal Government is fully committed to helping the people of Hawaii. 
Thank you. I love you Ohio! 
...Secretary Pompeo looks forward to going to North Korea in the near future most likely after our Trading relationship with China is resolved. In the meantime I would like to send my warmest regards and respect to Chairman Kim. I look forward to seeing him soon!
...Additionally because of our much tougher Trading stance with China I do not believe they are helping with the process of denuclearization as they once were (despite the UN Sanctions which are in place)...
I have asked Secretary of State Mike Pompeo not to go to North Korea at this time because I feel we are not making sufficient progress with respect to the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula...
Social Media Giants are silencing millions of people. Cant do this even if it means we must continue to hear Fake News like CNN whose ratings have suffered gravely. People have to figure out what is real and what is not without censorship!
Ex-NSA contractor to spend 63 months in jail over classified information. Gee this is small potatoes compared to what Hillary Clinton did! So unfair Jeff Double Standard.
....FISA abuse Christopher Steele his phony and corrupt Dossier the Clinton Foundation illegal surveillance of Trump Campaign Russian collusion by Dems - and so much more. Open up the papers documents without redaction? Come on Jeff you can do it the country is waiting!
Department of Justice will not be improperly influenced by political considerations. Jeff this is GREAT what everyone wants so look into all of the corruption on the other side including deleted Emails Comey lies leaks Mueller conflicts McCabe Strzok Page Ohr......
Our Economy is setting records on virtually every front - Probably the best our country has ever done. Tremendous value created since the Election. The World is respecting us again! Companies are moving back to the U.S.A.
Target CEO raves about the Economy. This is the best consumer environment Ive seen in my career. A big statement from a top executive. But virtually everybody is saying this when our Trade Deals are made cost cutting done you havent seen anything yet! @DRUDGE_REPORT
...And according to Polls would do even better today! 
...Cindy has voted for our Agenda in the Senate 100% of the time and has my complete and total Endorsement. We need Cindy to win in Mississippi!
.@cindyhydesmith has helped me put America First! Shes strong on the Wall is helping me create Jobs loves our Vets and fights for our conservative judges...
I have authorized an emergency disaster declaration to provide Hawaii the necessary support ahead of #HurricaneLane. Our teams are closely coordinating with the state and local authorities. You are in our thoughts! 
It was my great honor to host the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act Roundtable today at the @WhiteHouse! 
NO COLLUSION - RIGGED WITCH HUNT!
I have asked Secretary of State @SecPompeo to closely study the South Africa land and farm seizures and expropriations and the large scale killing of farmers. South African Government is now seizing land from white farmers. @TuckerCarlson @FoxNews
I have asked Secretary of State @MikePompeo4USA to closely study the South Africa land and farm seizures and expropriations and the large scale killing of farmers. South African Government is now seizing land from white farmers. @TuckerCarlson @FoxNews
The only thing that I have done wrong is to win an election that was expected to be won by Crooked Hillary Clinton and the Democrats. The problem is they forgot to campaign in numerous states!
I will be interviewed on @foxandfriends by @ainsleyearhardt tomorrow from 6:00 A.M. to 9:00 A.M. Enjoy!
Longest bull run in the history of the stock market congratulations America!
Everyone in the path of #HurricaneLane please prepare yourselves heed the advice of State and local officials and follow @NWSHonolulu for updates. Be safe! 
Thank you to Democrat Assemblyman Dov Hikind of New York for your very gracious remarks on @foxandfriends for our deporting a longtime resident Nazi back to Germany! Others worked on this for decades.
Michael Cohen plead guilty to two counts of campaign finance violations that are not a crime. President Obama had a big campaign finance violation and it was easily settled!
A large number of counts ten could not even be decided in the Paul Manafort case. Witch Hunt!
I feel very badly for Paul Manafort and his wonderful family. Justice took a 12 year old tax case among other things applied tremendous pressure on him and unlike Michael Cohen he refused to break - make up stories in order to get a deal. Such respect for a brave man!
If anyone is looking for a good lawyer I would strongly suggest that you dont retain the services of Michael Cohen!
Thank you West Virginia. I love you! 
MAKING AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! 
Just landed in West Virginia. Big crowd looking forward to seeing everyone soon! #MAGA
Join me tonight at the Charleston Civic Center in West Virginia at 7:00pmE! Tickets: 
To the incredible people of the Great State of Wyoming: Go VOTE TODAY for Foster Friess - He will be a fantastic Governor! Strong on Crime Borders 2nd Amendment. Loves our Military our Vets. He has my complete and total Endorsement!
Bill DeBlasio the high taxing Mayor of NYC just stole my campaign slogan: PROMISES MADE PROMISES KEPT! Thats not at all nice. No imagination! @foxandfriends
Big Rally tonight in West Virginia. Patrick Morrisey is running a GREAT race for U.S. Senate. I have done so much for West Virginia against all odds and having Patrick a real fighter by my side would make things so much easier. See you later. CLEAN COAL!!!!
I am sorry to have to reiterate that there are serious and unpleasant consequences to crossing the Border into the United States ILLEGALLY! If there were no serious consequences our country would be overrun with people trying to get in and our system could not handle it!
Fake News of which there is soooo much (this time the very tired New Yorker) falsely reported that I was going to take the extraordinary step of denying Intelligence Briefings to President Obama. Never discussed or thought of!
Even James Clapper has admonished John Brennan for having gone totally off the rails. Maybe Clapper is being nice to me so he doesnt lose his Security Clearance for lying to Congress!
A Blue Wave means Crime and Open Borders. A Red Wave means Safety and Strength!
I am hearing so many great things about the Republican Partys California Gubernatorial Candidate John Cox. He is a very successful businessman who is tired of high Taxes Crime. He will Make California Great Again make you proud of your Great State again. Total Endorsement!
Will be going to the Great State of West Virginia on Tuesday Night to campaign do a Rally Speech for a hard working and spectacular person A.G. Patrick Morrisey who is running for the U.S. Senate. Patrick has great Energy Stamina-I need his VOTE to MAGA. Total Endorsement!
Just watched former Intelligence Official Phillip Mudd become totally unglued and weird while debating wonderful @PARISDENNARD over Brennans Security Clearance. Dennard destroyed him but Mudd is in no mental condition to have such a Clearance. Should be REVOKED? @seanhannity
.@DianeHarkey is an extraordinary woman of great accomplishment potential. She is running as a very popular Republican for the Congressional seat of my friend Darrell Issa-with his complete support. Diane is strong on crime loves our Military Vets-has my total Endorsement!
It is outrageous that Poisonous Synthetic Heroin Fentanyl comes pouring into the U.S. Postal System from China. We can and must END THIS NOW! The Senate should pass the STOP ACT  and firmly STOP this poison from killing our children and destroying our country. No more delay!
Bruce Ohr is at the center of FALSE ALLEGATIONS which led to a multi-million dollar investigation into what apparently didnt happen. Darrell Issa House Oversight. We can take out the word apparently. @FoxNews
Will Bruce Ohr whose family received big money for helping to create the phony dirty and discredited Dossier ever be fired from the Jeff Sessions Justice Department? A total joke!
Everybody wants to keep their Security Clearance its worth great prestige and big dollars even board seats and that is why certain people are coming forward to protect Brennan. It certainly isnt because of the good job he did! He is a political hack.
I hope John Brennan the worst CIA Director in our countrys history brings a lawsuit. It will then be very easy to get all of his records texts emails and documents to show not only the poor job he did but how he was involved with the Mueller Rigged Witch Hunt. He wont sue!
Wheres the Collusion? They made up a phony crime called Collusion and when there was no Collusion they say there was Obstruction (of a phony crime that never existed). If you FIGHT BACK or say anything bad about the Rigged Witch Hunt they scream Obstruction!
....looking for trouble. They are enjoying ruining peoples lives and REFUSE to look at the real corruption on the Democrat side - the lies the firings the deleted Emails and soooo much more! Muellers Angry Dems are looking to impact the election. They are a National Disgrace!
Disgraced and discredited Bob Mueller and his whole group of Angry Democrat Thugs spent over 30 hours with the White House Councel only with my approval for purposes of transparency. Anybody needing that much time when they know there is no Russian Collusion is just someone....
Study the late Joseph McCarthy because we are now in period with Mueller and his gang that make Joseph McCarthy look like a baby! Rigged Witch Hunt!
Some members of the media are very Angry at the Fake Story in the New York Times. They actually called to complain and apologize - a big step forward. From the day I announced the Times has been Fake News and with their disgusting new Board Member it will only get worse!
The Failing New York Times wrote a story that made it seem like the White House Councel had TURNED on the President when in fact it is just the opposite - the two Fake reporters knew this. This is why the Fake News Media has become the Enemy of the People. So bad for America!
No Collusion and No Obstruction except by Crooked Hillary and the Democrats. All of the resignations and corruption yet heavily conflicted Bob Mueller refuses to even look in that direction. What about the Brennan Comey McCabe Strzok lies to Congress or Crookeds Emails!
....and have demanded transparency so that this Rigged and Disgusting Witch Hunt can come to a close. So many lives have been ruined over nothing - McCarthyism at its WORST! Yet Mueller his gang of Dems refuse to look at the real crimes on the other side - Media is even worse!
The failing @nytimes wrote a Fake piece today implying that because White House Councel Don McGahn was giving hours of testimony to the Special Councel he must be a John Dean type RAT. But I allowed him and all others to testify - I didnt have to. I have nothing to hide......
I allowed White House Counsel Don McGahn and all other requested members of the White House Staff to fully cooperate with the Special Counsel. In addition we readily gave over one million pages of documents. Most transparent in history. No Collusion No Obstruction. Witch Hunt!
I allowed White House Counsel Don McGahn and all other requested members of the White House Staff to fully cooperate with the Special Councel. In addition we readily gave over one million pages of documents. Most transparent in history. No Collusion No Obstruction. Witch Hunt!
The United States has ended the ridiculous 230 Million Dollar yearly development payment to Syria. Saudi Arabia and other rich countries in the Middle East will start making payments instead of the U.S. I want to develop the U.S. our military and countries that help us!
The Economy is stronger and better than ever before. Importantly there remains tremendous potential - it will only get better with time!
Great Job Rachel Campos-Duffy on @foxandfriends.
Has anyone looked at the mistakes that John Brennan made while serving as CIA Director? He will go down as easily the WORST in history since getting out he has become nothing less than a loudmouth partisan political hack who cannot be trusted with the secrets to our country!
All of the fools that are so focused on looking only at Russia should start also looking in another direction China. But in the end if we are smart tough and well prepared we will get along with everyone!
....Too many voices are being destroyed some good some bad and that cannot be allowed to happen. Who is making the choices because I can already tell you that too many mistakes are being made. Let everybody participate good bad and we will all just have to figure it out!
.....Censorship is a very dangerous thing absolutely impossible to police. If you are weeding out Fake News there is nothing so Fake as CNN MSNBC yet I do not ask that their sick behavior be removed. I get used to it and watch with a grain of salt or dont watch at all..
Social Media is totally discriminating against Republican/Conservative voices. Speaking loudly and clearly for the Trump Administration we wont let that happen. They are closing down the opinions of many people on the RIGHT while at the same time doing nothing to others.......
....financial gain is a Federal Gratuity Statute Violation Bribery Statute Violation Honest Services Violation....all Major Crimes....because the DOJ is run by BLANK Jeff Sessions...... Gregg Jarrett. So when does Mueller do what must be done? Probably never! @FoxNews
Bruce Ohr of DOJ is in legal jeopardy its astonishing that hes still employed. Bruce Nelly Ohrs bank account is getting fatter fatter because of the Dossier that they are both peddling. He doesnt disclose it under Fed Regs. Using your Federal office for personal.......
Bruce Ohr of DOJ is in legal jeopardy its astonishingthat hes still employed. Bruce Nelly Ohrs bank account is getting fatter fatter because of the Dossier that they are both peddling. He doesnt disclose it under Fed Regs. Using your Federal office for personal.......
Fox News has learned that Bruce Ohr wrote Christopher Steele following the firing of James Comey saying that he was afraid the anti-Trump Russia probe will be exposed. Charles Payne @FoxBusiness How much more does Mueller have to see? They have blinders on - RIGGED!
...I say Andrews was a bigger and more incompetent blunder. He should easily win his race against a Super Liberal Actress but his political career is over!
Which is worse Hightax Andrew Cuomo's statement WERE NOT GOING TO MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN IT WAS NEVER THAT GREAT or Hillary Clintons DEPLORABLES statement...
When a politician admits that Were not going to make America great again there doesnt seem to be much reason to ever vote for him. This could be a career threatening statement by Andrew Cuomo with many wanting him to resign-he will get higher ratings than his brother Chris!
Wow! Big pushback on Governor Andrew Cuomo of New York for his really dumb statement about Americas lack of greatness. I have already MADE America Great Again just look at the markets jobs military- setting records and we will do even better. Andrew choked badly mistake!
Wow! Big pushback on Governor Andrew Cuomo of New York for his really dumb statement about Americas lack of greatness. I have already MADE America Great Again just look at the markets jobs military- setting records and we will do even better. Andrew chocked badly mistake!
The U.S. has more than double the growth rate than it had 18 months ago.
Just announced youth unemployment is at a 50 year low! @foxandfriends
....attend the big parade already scheduled at Andrews Air Force Base on a different date go to the Paris parade celebrating the end of the War on November 11th. Maybe we will do something next year in D.C. when the cost comes WAY DOWN. Now we can buy some more jet fighters!
The local politicians who run Washington D.C. (poorly) know a windfall when they see it. When asked to give us a price for holding a great celebratory military parade they wanted a number so ridiculously high that I cancelled it. Never let someone hold you up! I will instead...
How does a politician Cuomo known for pushing people and businesses out of his state not to mention having the highest taxes in the U.S. survive making the statement WERE NOT GOING TO MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN IT WAS NEVER THAT GREAT? Which section of the sentence is worse?
In speaking with some of the worlds top business leaders I asked what it is that would make business (jobs) even better in the U.S. Stop quarterly reporting go to a six month system said one. That would allow greater flexibility save money. I have asked the SEC to study!
.....released in 2017. If his statement is based on intelligence he has seen since leaving office it constitutes an intelligence breach...... Richard Burr (R-NC) Senate Intel Cmte Chair @LouDobbs
Director Brennans recent statements purport to know as fact that the Trump campaign colluded with a foreign power. If Director Brennans statement is based on intelligence he received while leading the CIA why didnt he include it in the Intelligence Community Assessment......
....An incredibly corrupt FBI DOJ trying to steer the outcome of a Presidential Election. Brennan has gone off the deep end hes disgraced and discredited himself. His conduct has been outrageous. Chris Farrell Judicial Watch.
How can Senator Richard Blumenthal who went around for twenty years as a Connecticut politician bragging that he was a great Marine war hero in Vietnam (then got caught and sobbingly admitted he was neither a Marine nor ever in Vietnam) pass judgement on anyone? Loser!
.@TuckerCarlson speaking of John Brennan: How did somebody so obviously limited intellectually get to be CIA Director in the first place? Now that is a really good question! Then followed by Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut is a FAKE War Hero... So true a total Fake!
Very concerned about Comeys firing afraid they will be exposed said Bruce Ohr. DOJs Emails Notes show Bruce Ohrs connection to (phony discredited) Trump Dossier. A creep thinking he would get caught in a dishonest act. Rigged Witch Hunt!
While Steele shopped the document to multiple media outlets he also asked for help with a RUSSIAN Oligarch. Catherine Herridge of @FoxNews @LouDobbs In other words they were colluding with Russia!
The FBI received documents from Bruce Ohr (of the Justice Department whose wife Nelly worked for Fusion GPS). Disgraced and fired FBI Agent Peter Strzok. This is too crazy to be believed! The Rigged Witch Hunt has zero credibility.
Turkey has taken advantage of the United States for many years. They are now holding our wonderful Christian Pastor who I must now ask to represent our Country as a great patriot hostage. We will pay nothing for the release of an innocent man but we are cutting back on Turkey!
Thank you for the kind words Omarosa! 
Great @Cabinet meeting today at the @WhiteHouse! 
The Queen of Soul Aretha Franklin is dead. She was a great woman with a wonderful gift from God her voice. She will be missed!
There is nothing that I would want more for our Country than true FREEDOM OF THE PRESS. The fact is that the Press is FREE to write and say anything it wants but much of what it says is FAKE NEWS pushing a political agenda or just plain trying to hurt people. HONESTY WINS!
The Boston Globe which was sold to the the Failing New York Times for 1.3 BILLION DOLLARS (plus 800 million dollars in losses investment) or 2.1 BILLION DOLLARS was then sold by the Times for 1 DOLLAR. Now the Globe is in COLLUSION with other papers on free press. PROVE IT!
THE FAKE NEWS MEDIA IS THE OPPOSITION PARTY. It is very bad for our Great Country....BUT WE ARE WINNING!
Our Economy is doing better than ever. Money is pouring into our cherished DOLLAR like rarely before companies earnings are higher than ever inflation is low business optimism is higher than it has ever been. For the first time in many decades we are protecting our workers!
Id strip the whole bunch of them. Theyre all corrupt. Theyve all abused their power. Theyve all betrayed the American people with a political agenda. They tried to steal and influence an election in the United States. @seanhannity
Mark Levin When they had power they didnt stop the Russians the Chinese the North Koreans they funded the Iranians are responsible for the greatest scandal in American history by interfering with our election trying to undermine the Trump Campaign and Trump Presidency.
WERE NOT GOING TO MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN IT WAS NEVER THAT GREAT. Can you believe this is the Governor of the Highest Taxed State in the U.S. Andrew Cuomo having a total meltdown!
WERE NOT GONG TO MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN IT WAS NEVER THAT GREAT. Can you believe this is the Governor of the Highest Taxed State in the U.S. Andrew Cuomo having a total meltdown!
Hillary Clinton clearly got a pass by the FBI. We have the unfortunate situation where they then decided they were going to frame Donald Trump concerning the Rigged Witch Hunt. JOE DIGENOVA former U.S. Attorney.
John Brennan is a stain on the Country we deserve better than this. Former Secret Service Agent and author of new book Spygate the Attempted Sabotage of Donald J. Trump Dan Bongino. Thank you Dan and good luck with the book!
Chuck Schumer I agree! 
Our Country was built on Tariffs and Tariffs are now leading us to great new Trade Deals - as opposed to the horrible and unfair Trade Deals that I inherited as your President. Other Countries should not be allowed to come in and steal the wealth of our great U.S.A. No longer!
Happy Birthday to the leader of the Democrat Party Maxine Waters!
The action (the Strzok firing) was a decisive step in the right direction in correcting the wrongs committed by what has been described as Comeys skinny inner circle. Chris Swecker former FBI Assistant Director.
The Rigged Russian Witch Hunt goes on and on as the originators and founders of this scam continue to be fired and demoted for their corrupt and illegal activity. All credibility is gone from this terrible Hoax and much more will be lost as it proceeds. No Collusion!
My friend and very early supporter Kris Kobach won the Republican Nomination for Governor of Kansas last night in a tough race against a very fine opponent. Kris will win in November and be a great Governor. He has my complete and total Endorsement!
It is about time that Connecticut had a real and talented Governor. Bob Stefanowski is the person needed to do the job. Tough on crime Bob is also a big cutter of Taxes. He will win in November and make a Great Governor a major difference maker. Bob has my total Endorsement!
.@PeteStauber won big last night in Minnesota. A big star in Hockey he will be an even bigger star in politics. It all begins with a win in November. Pete has my complete and total Endorsement!
People who enter the United States without our permission are illegal aliens and illegal aliens should not be treated the same as people who entered the U.S. legally. Chuck Schumer in 2009 before he went left and haywire! @foxandfriends
Congratulations to Bryan Steil on a wonderful win last night. You will be replacing a great guy in Paul Ryan and your win in November will make the entire State of Wisconsin very proud. You have my complete and total Endorsement!
Jeff Johnson of Minnesota had a big night in winning the Republican nomination for Governor against a very strong and well known opponent! Thanks for all of the support you showed me. You have my complete and total Endorsement. You will win in November!
Scott Walker is very special and will have another great win in November. He has done a fantastic job as Governor of Wisconsin and will always have my full support and Endorsement!
Congratulations to Bryan Steil on a wonderful win last night. Your will be replacing a great guy in Paul Ryan and your win in November will make the entire State of Wisconsin very proud. You have my complete and total Endorsement!
Congratulations to Leah Vukmir of Wisconsin on your great win last night. You beat a very tough and good competitor and will make a fantastic Senator after winning in November against someone who has done very little. You have my complete and total Endorsement!
People who enter the United States without our permission are illegal aliens and illegal aliens should not be treated the same as people who enters the U.S. legally. Chuck Schumer in 2009 before he went left and haywire! @foxandfriends
Great Republican election results last night. So far we have the team we want. 8 for 9 in Special Elections. Red Wave!
Hope and Change in an Alabama Coal Mine 
Lou Dobbs: This cannot go forward...this Special Counsel with all of his conflicts with his 17 Angry Democrats without any evidence of collusion by the Trump Campaign and Russia. The Dems are the ones who should be investigated. Thank you Lou so true!
Strzok started the illegal Rigged Witch Hunt - why isnt this so-called probe ended immediately? Why arent these angry and conflicted Democrats instead looking at Crooked Hillary?
Fired FBI Agent Peter Strzok is a fraud as is the rigged investigation he started. There was no Collusion or Obstruction with Russia and everybody including the Democrats know it. The only Collusion and Obstruction was by Crooked Hillary the Democrats and the DNC!
They were all in on it clear Hillary Clinton and FRAME Donald Trump for things he didnt do. Gregg Jarrett on @foxandfriends If we had a real Attorney General this Witch Hunt would never have been started! Looking at the wrong people.
Bruce Ohr of the Justice Department (can you believe he is still there) is accused of helping disgraced Christopher Steele find dirt on Trump. Ohrs wife Nelly was in on the act big time - worked for Fusion GPS on Fake Dossier. @foxandfriends
Another terrorist attack in London...These animals are crazy and must be dealt with through toughness and strength!
When you give a crazed crying lowlife a break and give her a job at the White House I guess it just didnt work out. Good work by General Kelly for quickly firing that dog!
Lou Dobbs: This cannot go forward...this Special Councel with all of his conflicts with his 17 Angry Democrats without any evidence of collusion by the Trump Campaign and Russia. The Dems are the ones who should be investigated. Thank you Lou so true!
....should be shut down. The Strzok firing shows that the fundamental underpinnings of the investigation were corrupt. It should be shut down by the courts or by honest prosecutors. Thank you Judicial Watch I couldnt have said it better myself!
....guy was corrupt and had anti-Trump animus. Strzok and others at the FBI should be criminally investigated for the way the conducted this investigation. Instead Mueller is pretending nothing went wrong. He used Strzok he used the Clinton DNC Dossier...the whole thing....
Tom Fitton of Judicial Watch: The Strzok firing is as much about the Mueller operation as anything else. There would be no Mueller Special Councel to investigate so called collusion but for the machinations of Strzok his colleagues at the top levels of the FBI. We know this...
....such wonderful and powerful things about me - a true Champion of Civil Rights - until she got fired. Omarosa had Zero credibility with the Media (they didnt want interviews) when she worked in the White House. Now that she says bad about me they will talk to her. Fake News!
.@MarkBurnettTV called to say that there are NO TAPES of the Apprentice where I used such a terrible and disgusting word as attributed by Wacky and Deranged Omarosa. I dont have that word in my vocabulary and never have. She made it up. Look at her MANY recent quotes saying....
Scott Walker of Wisconsin is a tremendous Governor who has done incredible things for that Great State. He has my complete total Endorsement! He brought the amazing Foxconn to Wisconsin with its 15000 Jobs-and so much more. Vote for Scott on Tuesday in the Republican Primary!
Trumps foreign policy is actually boosting Americas standing 
It was my great honor to sign our new Defense Bill into law and to pay tribute to the greatest soldiers in the history of the world: THE U.S. ARMY. The National Defense Authorization Act is the most significant investment in our Military and our warfighters in modern history! 
Pete Stauber is running for Congress in Minnesota. He will make for a great Congressman. Pete is strong on crime and borders loves our Military Vets and Second Amendment. Vote for Pete tomorrow. He has my full and total Endorsement!
Great to be in Fort Drum New York with our HEROES! 
Just landed at Fort Drum New York. Looking forward to making a speech about our GREAT HEROES!
Brooks Koepka just won his third Golf Major and he did it not only with his powerful game but with his powerful mind. He has been a man of steel on the Tour and will have many Victories including Majors ahead of him. Congrats to Brooks and his great team on a job well done!
Wacky Omarosa already has a fully signed Non-Disclosure Agreement!
Just fired Agent Strzok formerly of the FBI was in charge of the Crooked Hillary Clinton sham investigation. It was a total fraud on the American public and should be properly redone!
Agent Peter Strzok was just fired from the FBI - finally. The list of bad players in the FBI DOJ gets longer longer. Based on the fact that Strzok was in charge of the Witch Hunt will it be dropped? It is a total Hoax. No Collusion No Obstruction - I just fight back!
The very unpopular Governor of Ohio (and failed presidential candidate) @JohnKasich hurt Troy Baldersons recent win by tamping down enthusiasm for an otherwise great candidate. Even Kasichs Lt. Governor lost Gov. race because of his unpopularity. Credit to Troy on the BIG WIN!
While I know its not presidential to take on a lowlife like Omarosa and while I would rather not be doing so this is a modern day form of communication and I know the Fake News Media will be working overtime to make even Wacky Omarosa look legitimate as possible. Sorry!
...really bad things. Nasty to people would constantly miss meetings work. When Gen. Kelly came on board he told me she was a loser nothing but problems. I told him to try working it out if possible because she only said GREAT things about me - until she got fired!
Wacky Omarosa who got fired 3 times on the Apprentice now got fired for the last time. She never made it never will. She begged me for a job tears in her eyes I said Ok. People in the White House hated her. She was vicious but not smart. I would rarely see her but heard....
Seems like the Department of Justice (and FBI) had a program to keep Donald Trump from becoming President. @DarrellIssa @foxandfriends If this had happened to the other side everybody involved would be in jail. This is a Media coverup of the biggest story of our time.
Many @harleydavidson owners plan to boycott the company if manufacturing moves overseas. Great! Most other companies are coming in our direction including Harley competitors. A really bad move! U.S. will soon have a level playing field or better.
.@GovMikeHuckabee Your paycheck is bigger your pension is stronger. @foxandfriends Unemployment numbers are better than they have been in 50 years perhaps ever. Our country is booming like never before - and it will get even better! Many companies moving back to the U.S.A.
.@JudgeJeanine Bob Mueller isnt your whole investigation premised on a Fake Dossier paid for by Hillary created by a man who hates Donald Trump used to con a FISA Court Judge. Bob I really think its time for you to give up your phony investigation. No Collusion!
Bikers for Trump at Bedminster earlier today. Thank you! 
Hundreds of Bikers for Trump just joined me at Bedminster. Quite a scene - great people who truly love our Country!
....Do you believe Nelly worked for Fusion and her husband STILL WORKS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE. I have never seen anything so Rigged in my life. Our A.G. is scared stiff and Missing in Action. It is all starting to be revealed - not pretty. IG Report soon? Witch Hunt!
The big story that the Fake News Media refuses to report is lowlife Christopher Steeles many meetings with Deputy A.G. Bruce Ohr and his beautiful wife Nelly. It was Fusion GPS that hired Steele to write the phony discredited Dossier paid for by Crooked Hillary the DNC....
I am proud to have fought for and secured the LOWEST African American and Hispanic unemployment rates in history. Now Im pushing for prison reform to give people who have paid their debt to society a second chance. I will never stop fighting for ALL Americans!
The riots in Charlottesville a year ago resulted in senseless death and division. We must come together as a nation. I condemn all types of racism and acts of violence. Peace to ALL Americans!
.....Will the FBI ever recover its once stellar reputation so badly damaged by Comey McCabe Peter S and his lover the lovely Lisa Page and other top officials now dismissed or fired? So many of the great men and women of the FBI have been hurt by these clowns and losers!
Why isnt the FBI giving Andrew McCabe text messages to Judicial Watch or appropriate governmental authorities. FBI said they wont give up even one (I may have to get involved DO NOT DESTROY). What are they hiding? McCabe wife took big campaign dollars from Hillary people.....
.....Will the FBI ever recover its once stellar reputation so badly damaged by Comey McCabe Peter S and his lover the lovely Lisa Page and other top officials now dismissed or fired? So many of the great men and women of the FBI have been hurt by these clowns and losers!
Why isnt the FBI giving Andrew McCabe text massages to Judicial Watch or appropriate governmental authorities. FBI said they wont give up even one (I may have to get involved DO NOT DESTROY). What are they hiding? McCabe wife took big campaign dollars from Hillary people......
Deal with Mexico is coming along nicely. Autoworkers and farmers must be taken care of or there will be no deal. New President of Mexico has been an absolute gentleman. Canada must wait. Their Tariffs and Trade Barriers are far too high. Will tax cars if we cant make a deal!
Thank you to Kanye West and the fact that he is willing to tell the TRUTH. One new and great FACT - African American unemployment is the lowest ever recorded in the history of our Country. So honored by this. Thank you Kanye for your support. It is making a big difference!
Had a very good phone call with @EmmanuelMacron President of France. Discussed various subjects in particular Security and Trade. Many other calls and conversations today. Looking forward to dinner tonight with Tim Cook of Apple. He is investing big dollars in U.S.A.
Democrats please do not distance yourselves from Nancy Pelosi. She is a wonderful person whose ideas policies may be bad but who should definitely be given a 4th chance. She is trying very hard has every right to take down the Democrat Party if she has veered too far left!
I have just authorized a doubling of Tariffs on Steel and Aluminum with respect to Turkey as their currency the Turkish Lira slides rapidly downward against our very strong Dollar! Aluminum will now be 20% and Steel 50%. Our relations with Turkey are not good at this time!
.....Be happy be cool! A football game that fans are paying soooo much money to watch and enjoy is no place to protest. Most of that money goes to the players anyway. Find another way to protest. Stand proudly for your National Anthem or be Suspended Without Pay!
The NFL players are at it again - taking a knee when they should be standing proudly for the National Anthem. Numerous players from different teams wanted to show their outrage at something that most of them are unable to define. They make a fortune doing what they love......
.@MariaBartiromo No evidence to launch even an investigation into potential collusion between Donald Trump and the Russians - and here we are a year and a half later.
Jenna Ellis FBI thought they wouldnt get caught because they thought that Hillary was going to win. There is overt bias and that depends on whether you are Democrat or Republican - a double standard that needs to stop.
@LindseyGrahamSC Why didnt the FBI tell President Trump that they had concerns about Carter Page? Is there a double standard here? They told Senator Diane Feinstein that she had a spy - but not Trump. Is that entrapment or did they just want to use Page as an excuse to SPY?
Congressman Ted Yoho of Florida is doing a fantastic job and has my complete and total Endorsement! Tough on Crime and Borders Ted was really helpful on Tax Cuts. Vote all the way for Ted in the upcoming Primary - he will never let you down!
Space Force all the way!
This is an illegally brought Rigged Witch Hunt run by people who are totally corrupt and/or conflicted. It was started and paid for by Crooked Hillary and the Democrats. Phony Dossier FISA disgrace and so many lying and dishonest people already fired. 17 Angry Dems? Stay tuned!
There has been no evidence whatsoever that Donald Trump or the campaign was involved in any kind of collusion to fix the 2016 election. In fact the evidence is the opposite that Hillary Clinton the Democrats colluded with the Russians to fix the 2016 election. @GrahamLedger
RED WAVE!
Congratulations to @LenaEpstein of Michigan on a job well done. Also thanks for your great support!
As long as I campaign and/or support Senate and House candidates (within reason) they will win! I LOVE the people they certainly seem to like the job Im doing. If I find the time in between China Iran the Economy and much more which I must we will have a giant Red Wave!
The Republicans have now won 8 out of 9 House Seats yet if you listen to the Fake News Media you would think we are being clobbered. Why cant they play it straight so unfair to the Republican Party and in particular your favorite President!
5 for 5!
Congratulations to Josh Hawley on your big Senate Primary win in Missouri. I look forward to working with you toward a big win in November. We need you in Washington!
Congratulations to Bill Schuette. You will have a Big win in November and be a tremendous Governor for the Great State of Michigan. Lots of car and other companies moving back!
Congratulations to a future STAR of the Republican Party future Senator John James. A big and bold victory tonight in the Great State of Michigan - the first of many. November cant come fast enough!
.....Congratulations to Troy Balderson on a great win in Ohio. A very special and important race!
When I decided to go to Ohio for Troy Balderson he was down in early voting 64 to 36. That was not good. After my speech on Saturday night there was a big turn for the better. Now Troy wins a great victory during a very tough time of the year for voting. He will win BIG in Nov.
Today on the 236th anniversary of the Purple Heart we honor the members of our Armed Forces for serving as the vanguard of American democracy and freedom around the world. #PurpleHeartDay 
Ohio vote today for Troy Balderson for Congress. His opponent controlled by Nancy Pelosi is weak on Crime the Border Military Vets your 2nd Amendment - and will end your Tax Cuts. Troy will be a great Congressman. #MAGA
The Iran sanctions have officially been cast. These are the most biting sanctions ever imposed and in November they ratchet up to yet another level. Anyone doing business with Iran will NOT be doing business with the United States. I am asking for WORLD PEACE nothing less!
California wildfires are being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which arent allowing massive amounts of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire from spreading!
Democrats want Open Borders and they want to abolish ICE the brave men and women that are protecting our Country from some of the most vicious and dangerous people on earth! Sorry we cant let that happen! Also change the rules in the Senate and approve STRONG Border Security!
Democrats want Open Borders and they want to abolish ICE the brave men and women that our protecting our Country from some of the most vicious and dangerous people on earth! Sorry we cant let that happen!Also change the rules in the Senate and approve STRONG Border Security!
John James is a potential Republican Star who has a Senate primary election tomorrow in Michigan. If he becomes the Republican candidate he will beat the Open Borders weak on Crime Democrat Debbie Stabenow. Vote for John James and Make America Great Again!
Governor Jerry Brown must allow the Free Flow of the vast amounts of water coming from the North and foolishly being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Can be used for fires farming and everything else. Think of California with plenty of Water - Nice! Fast Federal govt. approvals.
Kris Kobach a strong and early supporter of mine is running for Governor of the Great State of Kansas. He is a fantastic guy who loves his State and our Country - he will be a GREAT Governor and has my full total Endorsement! Strong on Crime Border Military. VOTE TUESDAY!
Great financial numbers being announced on an almost daily basis. Economy has never been better jobs at best point in history. Fixing our terrible Trade Deals is a priority-and going very well. Immigration on Merit Based System to take care of the companies coming back to U.S.A.
....a law firm eventually Kremlin connected sources to gather info on Donald Trump. Collusion is very real with Russia but only with Hillary and the Democrats and we should demand a full investigation. Dan Bongino on @foxandfriends Looking forward to the new IG Report!
Collusion with Russia was very real. Hillary Clinton and her team 100% colluded with the Russians and so did Adam Schiff who is on tape trying to collude with what he thought was Russians to obtain compromising material on DJT. We also know that Hillary Clinton paid through....
California wildfires are being magnified made so much worse by the bad environmental laws which arent allowing massive amount of readily available water to be properly utilized. It is being diverted into the Pacific Ocean. Must also tree clear to stop fire spreading!
Presidential Approval numbers are very good - strong economy military and just about everything else. Better numbers than Obama at this point by far. We are winning on just about every front and for that reason there will not be a Blue Wave but there might be a Red Wave!
Too bad a large portion of the Media refuses to report the lies and corruption having to do with the Rigged Witch Hunt - but that is why we call them FAKE NEWS!
...Why arent Mueller and the 17 Angry Democrats looking at the meetings concerning the Fake Dossier and all of the lying that went on in the FBI and DOJ? This is the most one sided Witch Hunt in the history of our country. Fortunately the facts are all coming out and fast!
Fake News reporting a complete fabrication that I am concerned about the meeting my wonderful son Donald had in Trump Tower. This was a meeting to get information on an opponent totally legal and done all the time in politics - and it went nowhere. I did not know about it!
..Because of Tariffs we will be able to start paying down large amounts of the $21 Trillion in debt that has been accumulated much by the Obama Administration while at the same time reducing taxes for our people. At minimum we will make much better Trade Deals for our country!
Tariffs are working big time. Every country on earth wants to take wealth out of the U.S. always to our detriment. I say as they comeTax them. If they dont want to be taxed let them make or build the product in the U.S. In either event it means jobs and great wealth.....
The Fake News hates me saying that they are the Enemy of the People only because they know its TRUE. I am providing a great service by explaining this to the American People. They purposely cause great division distrust. They can also cause War! They are very dangerous sick!
...Danny OConnor is a total puppet for Nancy Pelosi and Maxine Waters  Danny wants to raise your taxes open your borders and take away your 2nd Amendment. Vote for Troy on Tuesday!
A great night in Ohios 12th Congressional District with Troy Balderson! Troy loves Ohio and he loves the people of Ohio. He will be fighting for you all the way...
Thank you Ohio. I love you! 
Iran and its economy is going very bad and fast! I will meet or not meet it doesnt matter - it is up to them!
Heading to Ohio!
We won't bring about peace in the world merely by praying for it; we have to take steps to tackle the violence and corruption that disrupt peace. We can't expect change if we don't take action.
The first drawback of anger is that it destroys our inner peace; the second is that it distorts our view of reality. If we think about this and come to understand that anger is really unhelpful, that it is only destructive, we can begin to distance ourselves from anger.
The creation of a more peaceful and happier society has to begin from the level of the individual, and from there it can expand to one's family, to one's neighborhood, to one's community and so on.
In the present circumstances, no one can afford to assume that someone else will solve their problems. Each one of us has a responsibility to help guide our global family in the right direction. Good wishes are not sufficient; we must become actively engaged.
A sense of contentment is crucial to being happy. Physical health, material wealth and friends contribute to this, but contentment governs our relations with them all.
In our modern society everything seems geared to material development, even our systems of education. As a result we no longer pay sufficient attention to our inner values, which leads to mental unrest. In order to address this imbalance we need to pay more attention to our minds
If we were really to see one another as brothers and sisters, there would be no basis for division, cheating and exploitation among us. Therefore it's important to promote the idea of the oneness of humanity, that in being human we are all the same.
The first of my personal commitments is to work to increase human happiness by encouraging the cultivation of inner values and a sense of concern for others' well being. These are the key factors whether one is a religious person or not.
Since we desire the true happiness that is brought about by a calm mind, and such peace of mind arises only from having a compassionate attitude, we need to make a concerted effort to develop compassion.
As a human being I'm aware that we are all physically, mentally and emotionally the same and we all want to live a happy life. Scientists say our basic nature is compassionate. It's clear that love and affection bring people together.
Irrespective of whether we have faith in religion or not, it's good to be more compassionate. It makes us happier as individuals with a positive influence on our families and the neighborhood where we live.
I am one of the 7 billion human beings alive today. We each have a responsibility to think about humanity and the good of the world because it affects our own future. We weren't born on this planet at this time to create problems but to bring about some benefit.
We can achieve peace of mind if we tackle our destructive emotions, so the goal of making the 21st century an era of peace and compassion is feasible. It will involve finding solutions to problems in dialogue, not the use of force.
We may say prayers when we are trying to solve the problems we face, but it is up to us to put an end to violence and bring about peace. Creating peace is our responsibility. To pray for peace while still engaging in the causes that give rise to violence is contradictory.
Human beings are social animals and it is love that brings us together, while anger drives us apart. To live more peacefully and joyfully in our day to day lives, we need a warm heart.
Making others happy is not a question of sacrificing our own happiness. Trying to make others happy, even when we do not always succeed, is a source of great satisfaction. Anger and hatred are signs of weakness, while compassion is a sure sign of strength.
Many of the problems we face today are our own creation. Creating a more peaceful world requires a peaceful mind and a peaceful heart. As human brothers and sisters we must live together in tolerance and affection.
As human beings we need to assess whether anger has any value - it destroys our peace of mind. Compassion, on the other hand, brings optimism and hope.
The kind of behavior that really is spiritual practice consists of refraining from falsehood and abiding by the truth, neither humiliating nor mocking others, being humble, and having a good heart and helping others.
When our intentions toward others are good, we find that any feelings of anxiety or insecurity we may have are greatly reduced. We experience a liberation from our habitual preoccupation with self and paradoxically, this gives rise to strong feelings of confidence.
Inner transformation is not a matter of faith or prayer. It involves reason and the use of human intelligence. A calm and healthy mind has a very positive effect on our physical health and well-being.
Ethics are not a collection of commandments and prohibitions to abide by, but a natural inner offering that can bring happiness and satisfaction to ourselves and others.
Virtually all of us have benefited from our mother's affection at the start of our lives. When someone is on their deathbed, if he or she is surrounded by loved ones they can pass away peacefully. From birth to death we all need affection.
While many people consider sensory experience as the main source of happiness, really it is peace of mind. What destroys peace of mind is anger, hatred, anxiety and fear. Kindness counters this, and through appropriate education we can learn to tackle such emotions.
Cultivating a close, warm-hearted feeling for others automatically puts the mind at ease. It helps remove whatever fears or insecurities we may have and gives us the strength to cope with any obstacles we encounter. It is the ultimate source of success in life.
I am one of the 7 billion human beings alive today. We each have a responsibility to think about humanity and the good of the world because it affects our own future. We weren't born on this planet at this time to create problems but to bring about some benefit.
If you develop a pure and sincere motivation, if you are motivated by a wish to help on the basis of kindness, compassion, and respect, then you can carry on any kind of work, in any field, and function more effectively.
Prayer by itself is not sufficient to bring about peace of mind. What is much more effective is coming to understand the workings of the mind and learning how to tackle the mental afflictions that disturb it.
I always consider that the shape of the future is in our hands. The past is past and can't be changed, but the future has not yet arrived. Young people have the opportunity and responsibility to shape it by creating a better world.
We may say prayers when we are trying to solve the problems we face, but it is up to us to put an end to violence and bring about peace. Creating peace is our responsibility. To pray for peace while still engaging in the causes that give rise to violence is contradictory.
In today's interconnected and globalized world, it's now commonplace for people of different world views, faiths and races to live side by side. It's a matter of great urgency, therefore, that we find ways to cooperate with one another in a spirit of mutual acceptance and respect
The world belongs to its 7 billion inhabitants. In the past, communities could flourish in isolation, but now we can't. This World Environment Day let's remember that we depend on each other and that to meet the challenge of climate change, we have to work together.
Some people consider the practice of love and compassion is only related to religious practice and if they are not interested in religion they neglect these inner values. But love and compassion are qualities that human beings require just to live together.
Because of our intelligence we human beings are uniquely capable not only of creating problems, but of doing so on a large scale. Therefore, it is important that we use our intelligence in constructive ways. That's what warm-heartedness and concern for others lead us to do.
Everyone wants to lead a peaceful, happy life, but happiness and success aren't measured by how much money you have, but by whether you have inner peace in your heart.
I'm Tibetan, I'm Buddhist and I'm the Dalai Lama, but if I emphasize these differences it sets me apart and raises barriers with other people. What we need to do is to pay more attention to the ways in which we are the same as other people.
People inflict pain on others in their selfish pursuit of happiness and satisfaction. Yet true happiness comes from a sense of brotherhood and sisterhood. We need to cultivate a sense of universal responsibility for one another and the planet we share.
Compassion is of little value if it just remains an idea. It must motivate how we respond to others and be reflected in all our thoughts and actions.
We are, you might say, "brainwashed" into thinking that money is the source of happiness while what we really need to know is that inner peace is something that comes from within.
I often ask myself what is the purpose of our lives and I conclude that life's purpose is to be happy. We have no guarantee what will happen in the future, but we live in hope. That's what keeps us going.
Scientists warn that constant fear and anger are bad for our health, while being compassionate and warm-hearted contributes to our physical and mental well-being. Therefore, just as we observe physical hygiene to stay well, we need to cultivate a kind of emotional hygiene too.
There is a link between our physical and verbal actions and emotions. If, instead of anger, hatred and suspicion, we are moved by loving-kindness, we will naturally have greater respect for others and our actions will be non-violent.
There are always problems to face, but it makes a difference if our minds are calm. On the surface we may get upset, but it makes a difference if we are able to stay calm in the depths of our minds.
Humanity's thirst for natural resources can only be sustained if we adapt our patterns of consumption. Competition for necessities like water, food and land will inevitably intensify. To meet the challenge of climate change and environmental depletion we must all cooperate.
Not only is it the case that happy people are more willing to help others, but as I generally point out, helping others is the best way to help yourself, the best way to promote your own happiness. It is you, yourself, who will receive the benefit.
Compassion reduces our fear, boosts our confidence, and opens us to inner strength. By reducing distrust, it opens us to others and brings us a sense of connections with them and a sense of purpose and meaning in life.
I feel that it's crucial to have a clear recognition of the value of your objective. That's the important thing. Recognizing that your objective is worthy, because it involves others' welfare or the general well-being of the community, gives you the determination to pursue it.
In the modern world, where the pursuit of money is considered more important than the cultivation of inner values a fresh approach is required to incorporate secular ethics or universal values into the system of education.
Our real enemies and the enemies of humanity are negative emotions like anger and hatred. Indeed, people who are dominated by powerful negative emotions should be objects of our compassion.
Change in the world comes from individuals, from the inner peace in individual hearts. Just as ripples spread out when a single pebble is dropped into water, the actions of individuals can have far-reaching effects.
In our day to day life warm-heartedness is the key factor for happiness.
World peace can only be based on inner peace. If we ask what destroys our inner peace, it's not weapons and external threats, but our own inner flaws like anger. This is one of the reasons why love and compassion are important, because they strengthen us. This is a source of hope
The many factors which divide us are actually much more superficial than those we share. Despite all of the things that differentiate us - race, language, religion, gender, wealth and so on - we are all equal concerning our fundamental humanity.
When each of us learns to appreciate the critical importance of ethics and makes inner values like compassion and patience an integral part of our basic outlook on life, the effects will be far-reaching.
In today's materialistic world there is a risk of people becoming slaves to money, as though they were simply cogs in a huge money-making machine. This does nothing for human dignity, freedom, and genuine well-being. Wealth should serve humanity, and not the other way around.
Peace has a great deal to do with warm-heartedness and respect for the lives of others, avoiding doing them harm and regarding their lives as being as precious as our own. If, on that basis, we can also be of help to others, so much the better.
Insofar as the destructive effects of anger and hateful thoughts are concerned, one cannot get protection from wealth nor education. The only factor that can give protection from the destructive effects of anger and hatred is the practice of tolerance and patience.
Because of the great differences in our ways of thinking, it is inevitable that we have different religions and faiths. Each has its own beauty. And it is much better that we live together on the basis of mutual respect and mutual admiration.
Practicing compassion, caring for others and sharing their problems, lays the foundation for a meaningful life, not only at the level of the individual, family or community, but also for humanity as a whole.
The very purpose of spirituality is self-discipline. Rather than criticizing others, we should evaluate and criticize ourselves. Ask yourself, what am I doing about my anger, my attachment, my pride, my jealousy? These are the things we should check in our day to day lives.
Genuine friends, are attracted by a warm heart, not money, not power. A genuine friend considers you as just another human being, as a brother or sister, and shows affection on that level, regardless of whether you are rich or poor, or in a high position; that is a genuine friend
Compassion suits our physical condition, whereas anger, fear and distrust are harmful to our well-being. Therefore, just as we learn the importance of physical hygiene to physical health, to ensure healthy minds, we need to learn some kind of emotional hygiene.
Although I am a Buddhist monk, I am skeptical that prayers alone will achieve world peace. We need instead to be enthusiastic and self-confident in taking action.
I believe the ultimate source of blessings is within us. A good motivation and honesty bring self-confidence, which attracts the trust and respect of others. Therefore the real source of blessings is in our own mind.
The basic foundation of humanity is compassion and love. This is why, if even a few individuals simply try to create mental peace and happiness within themselves and act responsibly and kind-heartedly towards others, they will have a positive influence in their community.
Many people think that patience is a sign of weakness. I think this is a mistake. It is anger that is a sign of weakness, whereas patience is a sign of strength.
Developing inner values is much like physical exercise. The more we train our abilities, the stronger they become. The difference is that, unlike the body, when it comes to training the mind, there is no limit to how far we can go.
What's past is past, nothing can change that. But the future can be different if we choose to make it so. We have to cultivate a vision of a happier, more peaceful future and make the effort now to bring it about. This is no time for complacency, hope lies in the action we take.
Destructive thoughts and emotions undermine the very causes of peace and happiness. If you think clearly about it, it makes no sense to think you're seeking happiness, if you do nothing to restrain angry, spiteful, and malicious thoughts and emotions.
Modern education pays little attention to inner values and yet our basic human nature is compassionate. We need to incorporate compassion and warm-heartedness into the modern education system to make it more holistic.
I really feel that some people neglect and overlook compassion because they associate it with religion. Of course, everyone is free to choose whether they pay religion any regard, but to neglect compassion is a mistake because it is the source of our own well-being.
Whether science or religion is constructive or destructive depends on our motivation and whether we are guided by a real concern for the well-being of others and an appreciation of the oneness of humanity.
I am convinced we can become happier individuals, happier communities and a happier humanity by cultivating a warm heart, allowing our better selves to prevail.
Karma means action and action motivated by compassion is good. To complain that what happens to you is just the result of your karma is lazy. Instead, confidently recalling the advice that, "You are your own master," you can change what happens by taking action.
Within each of us exists the potential to contribute positively to society. Although one individual among so many on this planet may seem too insignificant, it is our personal efforts that will determine the direction our society is heading.
We need to strengthen such inner values as contentment, patience and tolerance, as well as compassion for others. Keeping in mind that it is expressions of affection rather than money and power that attract real friends, compassion is the key to ensuring our own well-being.
I consider non-violence to be compassion in action. It doesn't mean weakness, cowering in fear, or simply doing nothing. It is to act without violence, motivated by compassion, recognizing the rights of others.
Meditation is about keeping the mind clear; thinking deeply about reality. It's about thinking about our emotions, asking ourselves 'Why do I feel angry?' and coming to understand the advantages and sound basis of positive emotions like warm-heartedness.
Peace in the world depends on peace within. If we have that we can approach problems in a spirit of compassion, dialogue and respect for the rights of others, always a better solution than resorting to a use of weapons and force. External disarmament depends on inner disarmament.
Peace is not brought about through conflict, but through compassion, creating peace of mind within ourselves. We all need compassion and women can take a lead role in encouraging others to let it flower within them. My own first teacher of kindness and compassion was my mother.
Some people mistakenly conclude that cultivating compassion is all about others' benefit, whereas the first benefit is to us. Compassion brings us peace of mind. It attracts friends. Friends are based on trust and trust develops when we show concern for others.
What is important is not so much how long you live as whether you live a meaningful life. This doesn't mean accumulating money and fame, but being of service to your fellow human beings. It means helping others if you can, but even if you can't do that, at least not harming them.
We can change our minds. We don't have to give in to anger and hatred. Since compassion and anger cannot co-exist, the more we cultivate compassion the more our anger will be reduced.
I don't like formality. There's no formality when we're born and none when we die. In between we should treat each other as brothers and sisters because we all want to live a happy life. This is our common purpose and our right.
Anger and aggression sometimes seem to be protective because they bring energy to bear on a particular situation, but that energy is blind. It takes a calm mind to be able to consider things from different angles and points of view.
The use of force may control people physically, but it won't change their hearts and minds. You can only do that on the basis of trust and friendship.
Change in the world always begins with an individual who shares what he or she has learned and passes it on to others.
The most crucial use of knowledge and education is to understand the importance of developing a good heart.
We all want to live a happy life, which is our right, and the key to doing so is developing compassion for others.
We need to improve the current education system by introducing instructions on ways to cultivate positive emotions like warm-heartedness.
Compassion brings inner peace and whatever else is going on, that peace of mind allows us to see the whole picture more clearly.
Compassion is the essence of a spiritual life, to be successful in practicing love and compassion, patience and tolerance are indispensable.
I'm convinced that today's young people can achieve a more peaceful world if they cultivate warm-heartedness and inner peace.
The more compassionate our mind, the more we'll be able to lead our lives transparently, honestly, truthfully, with nothing to hide.
People go to great lengths to look physically attractive, but inner beauty is a more important and stronger basis for lasting relationships.
As social animals we need friends and what attracts them is trust. And trust grows when we show real concern for others' well-being.
Peace doesn't come from prayer alone, it requires us to take action. Our goal should be a demilitarized world. #PeaceDayChallenge
Whatever our religious faith, showing others loving kindness is the best way to bring about inner peace.
What we need today are universal values based not on faith but on scientific findings, common experience and common sense.
I'm just one human being, but I believe each one of us has a responsibility to contribute to a happier humanity.
Religious people pray for peace, but prayer alone is not enough, what will bring peace in the world is people cultivating peace of mind.
As a human brother I'm committed to letting people know that we all possess the seeds of love and compassion.
Using harsh words reflects narrow-mindedness, to be happy and joyful we need friends. Friendship is based on trust and treating others kindly
Just as we protect our health by observing physical hygiene, by tackling our destructive emotions with skill we'll achieve emotional hygiene
You may control people physically by force, but you won't change their hearts and minds, that requires trust and friendship.
By learning to be more warm-hearted we can create a more compassionate world.
When I heard scientists say they had evidence that basic human nature is compassionate, I thought, 'There's real hope.'
Inner beauty, warm-heartedness and compassion, is what brings about peace of mind.
Fear and suspicion won't help us live together. We have to cultivate warm-heartedness.
If we were really to see one another as brothers and sisters, there would be no basis for division, cheating and exploitation among us.
We all want to live a happy life, so we have to learn to live together in trust and mutual respect.
If you have a warm heart and you care for others you'll be happy and the community in which you live will be happier too.
Education today needs not only to develop our intelligence, but also to support basic human values of warm-heartedness and compassion.
There is no fortitude like patience, just as there is no destructive emotion worse than hatred. Therefore, practice patience and tolerance.
Since loving kindness is the basis of a happy life, It's my number one commitment to promote awareness of the importance of warm-heartedness
We experience happiness on a sensory level that is relatively short-lived. But lasting happiness is related to our state of mind.
Compassion brings us peace of mind. It brings a smile to our face and genuine smiles bring us closer together.
On a mental level kindness and compassion give rise to lasting joy. They reduce fear.
A more peaceful world and a more peaceful century require that we rely not on weapons but on developing a widespread inner peace.
We are all social animals and compassion, care and concern for others bring us together.
Having a calm and compassionate mind enables us to use our natural intelligence more effectively.
Protecting our environment is not a luxury we can choose to enjoy, but a simple matter of survival.
Peace in the world depends on our relating to each other with compassion.
Although bringing about inner change is difficult, it is absolutely worthwhile to try. What is important is to try our best.
Motivation is very important. We can show love, respect for others, and honesty in whatever we do to help humanity.
If human society loses the value of justice, compassion, and honesty, the next generation will face greater difficulties and more suffering.
The happiness of childhood, the calming of a child's fears and the healthy development of its self-confidence depend directly upon love.
Money and power attract friends. But it's not you they're friends with , just your money and power. Only affection brings genuine friends.
If in day to day life you lead a good life, honestly, with love, compassion, and less selfishness, then automatically you will find peace.
The future can be different if we choose to make it so. There is no time for complacency, hope lies in what action we take.
Anger may seem to be a source of energy, but it's blind. It causes us to lose our restraint. It may stir courage, but that too is blind.
It is in the nature of the mind that the more we cultivate and familiarize ourselves with positive emotions, the more powerful they become.
This Earth Day we need a greater sense of global responsibility based on our belonging to one human family.
While material development contributes to physical comfort, mental comfort depends on compassion, which expresses itself as nonviolence.
It is not enough simply to wish that love and compassion grow within us. We need a sustained effort to cultivate such positive qualities.
The aim of spiritual practice is to transform and perfect our motivation and mental disposition, so we can become better human beings.
Positive emotions like compassion and loving kindness engender in us a deep sense of peace and serenity, and benefits others as well.
We can make this a more peaceful century if we cherish non-violence and concern for others' well-being.
Some scientists have found evidence to show that basic human nature is compassionate. This is a really hopeful sign.
All religions have the potential to create better human beings, but no one religion can claim supremacy over the other.
To really be of help to others we need to be guided by compassion.
Caring for others is the best way to fulfil our own interests. We are social animals; we need to be warm-hearted and to take care of others.
Love and compassion are important, because they strengthen us. This is a source of hope
We have to cultivate a vision of a happier, more peaceful future and make the effort now to bring it about.
The purpose of education is to build a happier society, we need a more holistic approach that promotes the practice of love and compassion.
It's not what work we choose to do, the crucial point is doing it with a positive and altruistic motivation.
Be a kind and compassionate person. This is the inner beauty that is a key factor to making a better world.
Inner peace helps sustain good health, gives rise to happy individuals, happy families, happy communities and ultimately a happy humanity.
Be honest, truthful and warm-hearted. Make compassion the basis of your determination.
If our goal is a happier, more peaceful world in the future, only education will bring change.
The ultimate source of happiness for self and others is compassion, concern for others and being of service to them.
We know that everyone who is born has to die, but the important thing is that while we are alive we should make our lives meaningful.
If there can be a greater sense of oneness in the world, then violence and killing will end.
When we talk about happiness, we must think in terms of peace of mind, which is a real source of joy.
When you have a more compassionate mind and cultivate warmheartedness, the whole atmosphere around you becomes more positive and friendlier.
On this International Day of Peace, we must remember that peace cannot come from prayer alone. It requires action. #PeaceDayChallenge
The quality of every human activity ultimately depends on our motivation.
Change starts with us as individuals. If one individual becomes more compassionate it will influence others and so we will change the world.
Genuine compassion, unbiased and not mixed with attachment, is a source of genuine human happiness.
Meaningful dialogue requires us to respect others' rights and interests, compromise is the only way to resolve disputes.
Friendship depends on trust, not money, not power, not education. Only if there's trust will there be friendship.
Different religious traditions can live together on the basis of mutual admiration, mutual respect, and learning from each other.
We are all human beings possessing a seed of compassion. We have to use our intelligence to cultivate the inner values associated with it.
Whether we believe in religion or not, affection and compassion are key factors for our peace of mind.
We think that if we have health and wealth they're enough to be happy, but actually happiness depends on the state of our minds.
Problems created by human beings have to be solved by human beings. Basic human nature is compassionate and this is our source of hope.
If you show concern for others and respect for their rights you will establish trust; and trust is the basis of friendship.
We may sometimes feel that we can't do much as individuals, but humanity is made up of individuals; we can make a difference.
We are now so interdependent that it is in our own interest to take the whole of humanity into account.
We need to pay more attention to the inner values that are the key to our happiness.
Genuine peace in the world depends on our having peace in our hearts. If we are full of anger how can we expect to bring about peace.
There are always problems to face, but it makes a difference if our minds are calm.
Friendship depends on trust and trust grows when we live our lives honestly and sincerely, cultivating respect and concern for others.
If we start now and make the effort, we can make the world a more peaceful place. We have to try.
Being concerned about others does not mean you forgo fulfilling your own needs, but that if you do help others there is mutual benefit.
Problems created by human beings have to be solved by human beings. Basic human nature is compassionate and this is our source of hope.
Inner peace depends on warm-heartedness and a concern for others' well being.
Building trust depends on concern for others and defending their rights, not doing them harm.
If we remember the oneness of humanity and think of each other as brothers and sisters we can overcome that potential for violence.
This planet is our only home; we are all responsible for taking care of it. I'm happy to see leaders now taking climate change seriously.
The time has come for us to consider seriously how to change our way of life not through prayer or religious teaching, but through education
Because society is the basis of our own happiness, it makes sense for us to take care of others.
Creating a better world will require will-power, vision and determination. And for that we need a strong sense that humanity is one family.
The distinction between violence and non-violence lies less in the nature of the action and more in the motivation with which it is done.
Physical comfort alone does not bring inner peace. We create inner peace within the mind.
We need friendship, which depends on trust. And that depends on concern for others, defending their rights, and not doing them harm.
Whether technology's effect is good or bad depends on the user. It's important that we shouldn't be slaves to technology; it should help us.
Cultivating warm-heartedness and compassion is something we can all do.
Just as cold is dispelled by heat, its opposite, anger and loving-kindness counter one another.
Open hearts encourage a sense of security and trust that is the basis of genuine friendship, which is to everyone's benefit.
We will only create a more peaceful and harmonious world if we adopt a peaceful approach and engage openly in dialogue.
Love and affection are important if we are to live a happy life.
What is important today is that we consciously cultivate a sense of the oneness of humanity, because we all depend on each other.
Friendship doesn't depend on fame, money or physical strength. It's based on trust and trust depends on love and affection.
If you live your life honestly and truthfully, you'll be open and transparent, which leads to trust. And trust leads to friendship.
We have to make a special effort to think of each other as fellow human beings, as our brothers and sisters.
We have a marvelous brain, but have to use it properly. It's scientific to be skeptical, to research and experiment. An approach I admire.
When you help others, do so out of respect. Don't look down on them. Serve other human beings with a compassionate intent.
Climate change affects everyone, all nations, not just one or two. Consider it a global issue; national interests will automatically be met.
This planet is our home and Tibet its roof.  
When faced with problems, don't lose hope. Keep up your self-confidence and don't be too impatient to achieve quick results.
We need to promote the oneness of all human beings, on the basis of which there are no grounds for killing or exploiting others.
It is possible to use our intelligence and extend our compassion to others, including even our enemies.
Tibet's ecology needs protecting, not just for Tibetans, but for the health and sustainability of the entire world
Fundamentally, all spiritual traditions help us train our minds, overcome our negativities and fulfill our inner potential.
The future is in your hands, but for it to be peaceful and happy requires a sense of compassion and concern for others' well-being.
Many think that happiness is to be found outside ourselves in material things, but actually happiness is something that comes from within.
Changing the world is up to us. If each of us tries, the next generation may see a happier, more peaceful world emerge.
Let's remember that world peace results from individuals like us finding lasting peace within #PeaceDayChallenge
To serve others and not only to secure their welfare, but also to avoid harming them, is the standard of a meaningful life.
As human beings, equipped with marvelous intelligence and the potential for developing a warm heart, each of us can become a force for good
It's unrealistic to think that the future of humanity can be achieved through prayer or good wishes alone; what we need is to take action.
The goal of happier human beings living together, supporting each other, in a more peaceful world, is, I believe, something we can achieve.
Loving is of even greater importance than being loved.
The use of force and violence inevitably entails unanticipated consequences, but rarely yields a solution.
Compassion reduces our fear, boosts our confidence, and opens us to inner strength.
The moment you think of others, your mind widens.
Japan, the one country to have suffered nuclear attack, has taken the lead in opposing nuclear weapons. I strongly urge you to keep it up.
To create a happier humanity we have to pay more attention to our inner values, whether we are religious or not.
The real troublemaker is within us. Our true enemies are our own destructive tendencies.
To cultivate genuine compassion we need to take responsibility for our own care and have concern for everyone's suffering, including our own
If we're motivated by a genuine sense of universal responsibility our relations with the environment and our neighbors will be more balanced
What makes our human life precious is our marvelous brain. We have an ability to cultivate compassion in a way no other beings can do.
The greatest threat we face today is violence.
The gun may seem more decisive in the short term, but in the long term the power of truth is stronger.
When we wake up we can remind ourselves - "I need to be happy, I need to have warm feelings towards others."
We all want to be happy and avoid suffering, and we all have a right to be happy. That's why I say we are all the same.
To create a happier humanity we have to pay more attention to our inner values, whether we are religious or not.
A truthful, compassionate attitude is a sign of strength. It's lying and anger that betray weakness.
Since climate change and the global economy now affect us all, we have to develop a sense of the oneness of humanity.
We all have the potential to develop unbiased love and concern for other human beings.
To reduce destructive emotions we need to strengthen constructive emotions. For example, to counter anger we cultivate love and compassion.
It's important is to show children affection to give them a sense of security and the ability to be affectionate for the rest of their lives
Ask yourselves now and then, "How can I contribute to human beings being happier and more at peace?"
As human beings we are all responsible for each other; we all have the potential to be kind and affectionate.
When our mind is calm, we're better able to find peace of mind and live a joyful life.
Since we are not solely material creatures, it is a mistake to base all our hopes for happiness on external development alone.
Common sense tells us we'll be happy even if we're poor if we're warm-hearted, whereas if we're wealthy but self-centred we'll be miserable
Kindness and compassion give rise to self-confidence, which in turn empowers us to be honest, truthful and transparent.
Giving in to anger, fear and suspicion disturbs our minds and our physical well-being, whereas trust and friendship are the basis of society
Because all religious traditions teach love, tolerance and forgiveness, and share a common goal, we can appreciate and respect them all.
Deep down we must have a real affection for each other, a clear recognition of our shared status as human beings.
Doing to harm to others may bring some temporary satisfaction, but being helpful to them is the only real source of lasting joy.
Our potential for positive and negative emotions is the same, but intelligence is our special quality. Use it well; be successful and happy.
The future is in the hands of those who belong to the 21st century with the opportunity to build a better humanity by training the mind.
Friends are made on the basis of trust and trust only grows if you are kind to people.
It is important to teach young people at school that violence is a fruitless approach to solving problems.
It's clear that the ultimate source of happiness is warm-heartedness.
Anger cannot coexist with inner peace, which is the principal characteristic of happiness.
When our mind is calm, we're better able to find peace of mind and live a joyful life.
If we have respect and concern for other beings, we'll be able to create an atmosphere of happiness, harmony and real brotherhood
One of our best human qualities is intelligence; it enables us to judge what is beneficial and what brings harm.
In our daily lives, mindfulness, a more holistic and compassionate attitude helps us keep our peace of mind; it's good for our health too.
Compassion is not just the business of the religious; it is important to know it's everyone's business, it is a question of human survival.
We need to strike a balance between material and spiritual progress, a balance achieved on the basis of love and compassion.
Only tolerance and patience can protect us from the destructive effects of anger and hatred.
Everyone can practise non-violence, it only calls for determination. If you succeed, it will open the way to a far more peaceful world.
Affection and compassion are indispensable in daily life.
Idealistic as it may sound, altruism should be the driving force in business, not just competition and a desire for wealth.
True compassion isn't just an emotional response, it's a firm commitment founded on reason, which doesn't change if others behave badly.
Determination, courage, self-confidence lead to success, but we should always remain humble, modest and unpretentious.
Showing respect for others' rights and views is not only the source of reconciliation it's also an aspect of compassion.
Tolerance is always important, it helps us overcome difficulties. Without it, small things irritate us and we overreact.
Material development only gives us sensory pleasure, but to be lastingly happy we need to develop our minds. We need calm minds.
Being aware of a single shortcoming within yourself is far more useful than being aware of a thousand in someone else.
The purpose of religion is not building grand temples but cultivating positive human qualities like tolerance, generosity and love.
We can develop patience and change our attitudes through steady practice - the human mind has such potential.
Concern yourselves more with the needs of others, with the needs of all humanity, and you'll have peace of mind.
Compassion suits our physical condition, whereas anger, fear and distrust are harmful to our well-being.
True friendship develops not as a result of money or power but on the basis of genuine human affection.
If we were to think of other people as our human brothers and sisters, there'd be no room for quarrelling or killing each other.
You can't buy inner peace or wisdom with money. You have to create them within yourself.
Without technology humanity has no future, but we have to be careful that we don't become so mechanised that we lose our human feelings.
To meet this century's challenges, human beings need a greater sense of universal responsibility.
Compassion should be unbiased, based on a recognition that others have a right to happiness, just as you do.
Love and kindness are the very basis of society. If we lose these positive emotions, society will face tremendous difficulties.
Human rights apply to every country because all human beings share an inherent yearning for freedom, dignity and equality.
If you develop care and concern for others, you'll develop a kind of inner strength in spite of your own difficulties and problems.
We need to balance material and spiritual progress, acting with love and compassion can help achieve that balance.
I believe that human nature is fundamentally positive and gentle; therefore, a human approach should be non-violent.
If we do nothing to restrain our angry, spiteful, and malicious thoughts and emotions, happiness will elude us.
Even small acts of compassion bring meaning and purpose to our lives.
My number one commitment is to extend awareness that peace of mind depends on our cultivating inner values.
Affection, warm-heartedness, that makes us happy; wealth alone can't do that.
The value of compassion and forgiveness is not confined to matters of religion. These are human values that we shouldn't neglect.
Patience as we wait to take action is a kind of compassionate mind. Impatience on the other hand can be a source of failure.
A calm mind makes us relaxed, improves our health and makes for happier families and communities.
Affection, a sense of community and a sense of concern for others are not some kind of luxury. They're about the survival of humanity.
Cultivating a genuine sense of concern for others' well-being is the basis for the trust that makes happiness and friendship possible.
If you make others happy, you'll be happy. If you make others unhappy, you'll be miserable.
We are social animals and it is in our own interest, if we want to live a happy life, to think of the rest of humanity.
It's not just money we need to lead a happy life; more important is to find inner peace.
Compassion indicates strength, while anger is a sign of weakness and forgiveness is about not giving in to anger or thoughts of revenge.
If we want to improve humanity, we have to start with individuals.
Tackling destructive emotions like anger and hatred entails developing constructive emotions like love and compassion.
Our intelligence needs to be guided by warm-heartedness.
If you're angry and resentful it's like being part of a chain reaction; forgiveness puts a stop to anger, ill-will and a desire for revenge.
It is evident that to help others rather than harming them, treating them with love and compassion leads to lasting trust and friendship.
The idea of one side suffering defeat while the other side triumphs is out of date. Instead we have to develop dialogue.
In order to derive the maximum benefit the wise thing is take care of others.
Developing an attitude more concerned with others reduces fear and fosters friendship.
When we have an altruistic motivation, all our actions become constructive.
We need cooperation based on trust and self-confidence to create an open, compassionate, harmonious society.
There needs to be a systematic approach to introducing inner values, a warm-hearted concern for all human beings, into education.
Compassion is a source of happiness, while self-centerdness can lead ultimately to violence.
Warm-heartedness and concern for others' well-being are a condition for happiness, whether you are religious or not.
Non-violence is when one has the chance to harm another but resists from doing so, this is genuine non-violence.
The quality of our actions, whether they are positive or negative, depends on our motivation. This is why we have to transform our minds.
We need to consider how our actions affect wildlife and the environment, and how they are likely to affect others.
I often tease young people about their concern for how they look; more important is inner beauty - compassion, affection and respect.
Wherever I go I try to hold discussions with members of other religious traditions, because it is important to get to know about them.
The more we are concerned for the well-being of others, the closer we will feel to each other.
If we cherish non-violence and concern for others' well-being it is possible to make this a more peaceful century.
A meaningful life isn't about acquiring money and other facilities; it's about dedicating your life to helping others as much as you can.
As a human being, I believe each one of us should have some concern for others and for the planet.
It is always helpful to remain honest and truthful in the face of difficulty.
In addition to modern education, there is a need to learn how to achieve inner peace.
Pay more attention to compassion and you'll find you're happier. It's that practical and simple.
We need to see that anger is never any use in solving problems, but that patience and compassion are helpful.
If tragedy strikes, don't lose hope. Transform it into an opportunity to make things better.
When you are concerned for the welfare of others, bullying and exploitation cease.
We have to try to solve local problems keeping global interests in mind.
We can teach people how to be happy on the basis of secular ethics, that a compassionate mind is useful, beneficial and secular in nature.
The power of truth never declines. Force and violence may be effective in the short term, but in the long run it's truth that prevails.
Concern for others is not just a matter of religious practice; it's a practical step towards creating a happy society.
Even people opposed to religion need calm minds and compassion to make their work more effective.
We all need basic human values rooted in trust and affection.
Warm-heartedness gives rise to the self-confidence and inner strength that supports a calm mind.
Just as we teach about physical hygiene in the interest of good health, we now need to teach about mental or emotional hygiene too.
It is important to appreciate the contribution compassion and warm-heartedness make to happiness.
Everyone wants to lead a happy life, a meaningful life. In order to fulfil this goal our practice should be realistic.
When you face problems in your lives, don't resort to the use of force, try to employ dialogue to find a solution.
Whether we follow a religious path or not, as human beings we all need affection.
We must design education that provides for both knowledge and a healthy mind, creating a sense of compassion that responds to all humanity.
We have to build a better, more equal world through peace and non-violence.
It would help if there were greater understanding that anger never helps to solve a problem.
Leading your life honestly and truthfully will create trust and friendship.
Now we're so interdependent, we need to build trust and confidence. On a national or personal level self-centredness is a source of trouble.
You can't help someone just by making a wish to do so, you have to take action.
We need a sense of belonging to one humanity, respecting the rights and views of others.
If you dedicate yourself to helping others, you'll be happier.
We can only transform humanity and create a happier more compassionate world through education.
Today, let us wish each other a Happy New Year, but also that we may make it meaningful.
No matter what our motivation may be, if we are not realistic we will not fulfil our goal.
In order to exercise creativity, freedom of thought is essential.
We cannot change the past, but we can reshape the future. Young people have the opportunity to create a happier, better future
All beings want to live in peace and happiness, undisturbed. Therefore the concept of human rights is universal.
Anger and hatred lead to fear; compassion and concern for others allow us to develop self-confidence, which breeds trust and friendship.
It's harmful to employ technology fired by anger and hatred. It can only be beneficial if we're motivated to seek the welfare of all beings.
Sometimes things go wrong; that's normal. But we have a saying in Tibetan, 'Nine times fail, nine times try again'.
Because of the risks involved in indulging in unrestrained desire and greed we need to cultivate contentment and simplicity.
I believe compassion to be one of the few things we can practice that will bring immediate and long-term happiness to our lives.
Not only is your own happiness and welfare related to others, but the more you help them, the happier you will be.
I try to treat whoever I meet as an old friend. This gives me a genuine feeling of happiness.
Since we are increasingly interdependent it's time to develop a sense of global responsibility, to help each other and promote human values.
Great changes start with individuals; the basis of world peace is inner peace in the hearts of individuals, something we can all work for.
If we have a good heart and concern for others, our actions will be positive.
The challenge today is to convince people of the value of truth, honesty, compassion and a concern for others.
Love and compassion are qualities that human beings require just to live together.
We need values based on common sense, experience and scientific findings, what I refer to as secular ethics.
If you want change, create the causes.
Having a compassionate attitude is the ultimate basis for living a happy life.
Prayer can be of great solace to the individual, but changing the world requires us to take action.
If we make a common attempt to improve our education systems, we can educate the coming generations to be more compassionate.
As human beings, we have a common responsibility to build a more peaceful society.
The opponent of peace of mind is not something external, but within us.
Use your human intelligence in the best way you can; transform your emotions in a positive way.
Fear that makes us run from a mad dog is useful and necessary, whereas fear rooted in mistrust is unhelpful and needs to be overcome.
In order to derive the maximum benefit the wise thing is to take care of others.
Forgiveness is how we put a stop to anger, ill-will and a desire for revenge.
If we have peace of mind, we'll always feel happy. Deceiving ourselves that money is the source of happiness, we won't.
I'm optimistic that there is a growing appetite for peace in the world. Many young people are fed up with war and violence.
Warm-heartedness is the key factor that allows me to smile and be happy, even in the company of strangers.
Blessings don't come from outside, but from within. Whatever blessings we receive are the result of our own efforts and positive actions.
Anger destroys our peace of mind and causes trouble. It also hampers our ability to function properly.
Wherever I go I talk to people about the need to be aware of the oneness of humanity.
Compassion is what makes our lives meaningful.
Instead of harboring fear and suspicion we need to think of other people not as 'them' but 'us'.
It is important to let people know that they have the source of contentment and happiness within themselves.
Peace can only be achieved through non-violence. This is something we have to train and educate our children to put into effect.
A person who practices compassion and forgiveness has great inner strength, whereas aggression is usually a sign of weakness.
Among human beings trust comes about, not from expressions of wealth or fame, but from our showing affection.
When you concern yourself with others, you naturally develop a sense of self-confidence. To help others takes courage and inner strength.
Despite the superficial differences between us, we need to have a sense that all 7 billion human beings belong to one human family.
What we do need to do is to find ways to incorporate advice about warm-heartedness into our education system.
When we develop care and concern by thinking of others not as 'them' but 'us', there is no room for bullying, exploitation or deceit.
Genuine peace is based on inner peace, because you cannot build peace on the basis of anger.
We naturally have self-interest but it should be wise rather than foolish self-interest by taking others needs into account as well as ours.
If we make consistent effort, based on proper education, we can change the world.
Everybody wants a happy life and a peaceful mind, but we have to produce peace of mind through our own practice.
Just as ripples spread out when a single pebble is dropped into water, the actions of individuals can have far-reaching effects.
Serving and helping others out of compassion is non-violence in action.
Concern for others' well being reduces fear and suspicion, prompting the openness and transparency that gives rise to trust and friendship.
We live in a world in which we are dependent on others; we cannot expect to fulfil our goals while disregarding others' needs.
When you are warm-hearted, there is no room for anger, jealousy or insecurity.
Past history clearly shows that violence cannot solve problems.
A great Tibetan teacher of mind training once remarked that one of the mind's most marvelous qualities is that it can be transformed.
Genuine happiness comes from focusing on the happiness of others.
Once you have a genuine sense of concern for others, there's no room for cheating, bullying or exploitation.
Peace isn't the mere absence of violence; peace must come from inner peace. And inner peace comes from taking others' interests into account
Warm-heartedness and concern for others are a part of human nature and are at the core of positive human values.
A happy society must be created by people themselves, not through prayer alone, but by taking action.
I like to point out that our nature is basically compassionate because we are social animals. What brings us together is love and affection.
We need to understand that material development by itself it doesn't bring peace of mind. This can only be developed within the mind.
Who is there among us who does not prefer tolerance, respect and forgiveness of our failings to bigotry, disrespect, and resentment?
Through constant training we can enhance our positive attitudes and thoughts and reduce their opposing negative attitudes.
A genuine change must first come from within the individual, only then can he or she attempt to make a significant contribution to humanity.
Today's children are hugely important, our hopes for the future lie in their hands and rest on their shoulders.
I am increasingly convinced that the time has come to find a way of thinking about spirituality and ethics beyond religion altogether.
The many factors which divide us are actually much more superficial than those we share.
Genuine friendship depends on genuine affection and taking a sense of responsibility for each other.
Human values like democracy, freedom of speech and freedom of the individual, these are changes whose momentum cannot be stopped.
The quality of everything we do: our physical actions, our verbal actions, and even our mental actions, depends on our motivation.
Unlike the body, when it comes to training the mind, there is no limit to how far we can go.
Patience guards us against losing our presence of mind so we can remain undisturbed, even when the situation is really difficult.
If you become more concerned for the welfare of others, you will experience a sense of calm, inner strength and self-confidence.
If we are optimistic, take a longer view, and we employ realistic methods, we can contribute to making the world a better place.
Unbiased love is undoubtedly difficult to generate, but if you practice
with determination, day by day your attitude will be transformed.
Compassion is a mental quality that can bring us true lasting inner peace and inner strength.
We often talk about moral values, justice and trust, but the important thing is to put them into effect in our everyday lives.
Wealth may contribute to our happiness, but it's not the most important factor; by itself wealth fails to bring us deep inner satisfaction.
The more adept we are in cultivating altruism, the happier we will be and the better the atmosphere we will create around us.
Compassion is a marvel of human nature, a precious inner resource, and the foundation of our well-being and the harmony of our societies.
We have to put effort into being honest, truthful and compassionate towards others.
The essence of compassion is a desire to alleviate the suffering of others and to promote their well-being.
While revenge weakens society, forgiveness gives it strength.
A calm mind is really helpful in sustaining a healthy body.
To bring about a better world, let us all strive together with vision, with courage, and with optimism.
The creation of a more peaceful and happier society has to begin from the level of the individual.
It is my hope that the twenty-first century will be a century when a more caring, responsible, and compassionate humanity will emerge.
The real source of happiness involves one's state of mind, outlook, and motivation, and one's level of warmheartedness towards others.
Compassion, along with love, is the face of altruism.
We must work together. Humanity needs more genuine cooperation.
We tend to forget that despite the superficial differences between us, people are equal in their basic wish for peace and happiness.
It is necessary to help others in our daily lives, merely praying for them isn't enough.
Compassion is the wish to offer unbiased service to all beings, whether they are friendly or hostile to you.
As compassion grows stronger, so does your commitment to the welfare of all beings, even if you have to act alone.
Affection, honesty, harmony and non-violence are qualities that yield happiness for individuals, families and society at large.
Once your mind is calm and full of love, there is no room for hatred or fear. Others will trust you because of your open heart. 
We won't bring about peace in the world merely by praying for it; we have to take steps to tackle the violence and corruption that disrupt peace. We can't expect change if we don't take action.
The first drawback of anger is that it destroys our inner peace; the second is that it distorts our view of reality. If we think about this and come to understand that anger is really unhelpful, that it is only destructive, we can begin to distance ourselves from anger.
The creation of a more peaceful and happier society has to begin from the level of the individual, and from there it can expand to one's family, to one's neighborhood, to one's community and so on.
In the present circumstances, no one can afford to assume that someone else will solve their problems. Each one of us has a responsibility to help guide our global family in the right direction. Good wishes are not sufficient; we must become actively engaged.
A sense of contentment is crucial to being happy. Physical health, material wealth and friends contribute to this, but contentment governs our relations with them all.
In our modern society everything seems geared to material development, even our systems of education. As a result we no longer pay sufficient attention to our inner values, which leads to mental unrest. In order to address this imbalance we need to pay more attention to our minds
If we were really to see one another as brothers and sisters, there would be no basis for division, cheating and exploitation among us. Therefore it's important to promote the idea of the oneness of humanity, that in being human we are all the same.
The first of my personal commitments is to work to increase human happiness by encouraging the cultivation of inner values and a sense of concern for others' well being. These are the key factors whether one is a religious person or not.
Since we desire the true happiness that is brought about by a calm mind, and such peace of mind arises only from having a compassionate attitude, we need to make a concerted effort to develop compassion.
As a human being I'm aware that we are all physically, mentally and emotionally the same and we all want to live a happy life. Scientists say our basic nature is compassionate. It's clear that love and affection bring people together.
Irrespective of whether we have faith in religion or not, it's good to be more compassionate. It makes us happier as individuals with a positive influence on our families and the neighborhood where we live.
I am one of the 7 billion human beings alive today. We each have a responsibility to think about humanity and the good of the world because it affects our own future. We weren't born on this planet at this time to create problems but to bring about some benefit.
We can achieve peace of mind if we tackle our destructive emotions, so the goal of making the 21st century an era of peace and compassion is feasible. It will involve finding solutions to problems in dialogue, not the use of force.
We may say prayers when we are trying to solve the problems we face, but it is up to us to put an end to violence and bring about peace. Creating peace is our responsibility. To pray for peace while still engaging in the causes that give rise to violence is contradictory.
Human beings are social animals and it is love that brings us together, while anger drives us apart. To live more peacefully and joyfully in our day to day lives, we need a warm heart.
Making others happy is not a question of sacrificing our own happiness. Trying to make others happy, even when we do not always succeed, is a source of great satisfaction. Anger and hatred are signs of weakness, while compassion is a sure sign of strength.
Many of the problems we face today are our own creation. Creating a more peaceful world requires a peaceful mind and a peaceful heart. As human brothers and sisters we must live together in tolerance and affection.
As human beings we need to assess whether anger has any value - it destroys our peace of mind. Compassion, on the other hand, brings optimism and hope.
The kind of behavior that really is spiritual practice consists of refraining from falsehood and abiding by the truth, neither humiliating nor mocking others, being humble, and having a good heart and helping others.
When our intentions toward others are good, we find that any feelings of anxiety or insecurity we may have are greatly reduced. We experience a liberation from our habitual preoccupation with self and paradoxically, this gives rise to strong feelings of confidence.
Inner transformation is not a matter of faith or prayer. It involves reason and the use of human intelligence. A calm and healthy mind has a very positive effect on our physical health and well-being.
Ethics are not a collection of commandments and prohibitions to abide by, but a natural inner offering that can bring happiness and satisfaction to ourselves and others.
Virtually all of us have benefited from our mother's affection at the start of our lives. When someone is on their deathbed, if he or she is surrounded by loved ones they can pass away peacefully. From birth to death we all need affection.
While many people consider sensory experience as the main source of happiness, really it is peace of mind. What destroys peace of mind is anger, hatred, anxiety and fear. Kindness counters this, and through appropriate education we can learn to tackle such emotions.
Cultivating a close, warm-hearted feeling for others automatically puts the mind at ease. It helps remove whatever fears or insecurities we may have and gives us the strength to cope with any obstacles we encounter. It is the ultimate source of success in life.
I am one of the 7 billion human beings alive today. We each have a responsibility to think about humanity and the good of the world because it affects our own future. We weren't born on this planet at this time to create problems but to bring about some benefit.
If you develop a pure and sincere motivation, if you are motivated by a wish to help on the basis of kindness, compassion, and respect, then you can carry on any kind of work, in any field, and function more effectively.
Prayer by itself is not sufficient to bring about peace of mind. What is much more effective is coming to understand the workings of the mind and learning how to tackle the mental afflictions that disturb it.
I always consider that the shape of the future is in our hands. The past is past and can't be changed, but the future has not yet arrived. Young people have the opportunity and responsibility to shape it by creating a better world.
We may say prayers when we are trying to solve the problems we face, but it is up to us to put an end to violence and bring about peace. Creating peace is our responsibility. To pray for peace while still engaging in the causes that give rise to violence is contradictory.
In today's interconnected and globalized world, it's now commonplace for people of different world views, faiths and races to live side by side. It's a matter of great urgency, therefore, that we find ways to cooperate with one another in a spirit of mutual acceptance and respect
The world belongs to its 7 billion inhabitants. In the past, communities could flourish in isolation, but now we can't. This World Environment Day let's remember that we depend on each other and that to meet the challenge of climate change, we have to work together.
Some people consider the practice of love and compassion is only related to religious practice and if they are not interested in religion they neglect these inner values. But love and compassion are qualities that human beings require just to live together.
Because of our intelligence we human beings are uniquely capable not only of creating problems, but of doing so on a large scale. Therefore, it is important that we use our intelligence in constructive ways. That's what warm-heartedness and concern for others lead us to do.
Everyone wants to lead a peaceful, happy life, but happiness and success aren't measured by how much money you have, but by whether you have inner peace in your heart.
I'm Tibetan, I'm Buddhist and I'm the Dalai Lama, but if I emphasize these differences it sets me apart and raises barriers with other people. What we need to do is to pay more attention to the ways in which we are the same as other people.
People inflict pain on others in their selfish pursuit of happiness and satisfaction. Yet true happiness comes from a sense of brotherhood and sisterhood. We need to cultivate a sense of universal responsibility for one another and the planet we share.
Compassion is of little value if it just remains an idea. It must motivate how we respond to others and be reflected in all our thoughts and actions.
We are, you might say, "brainwashed" into thinking that money is the source of happiness while what we really need to know is that inner peace is something that comes from within.
I often ask myself what is the purpose of our lives and I conclude that life's purpose is to be happy. We have no guarantee what will happen in the future, but we live in hope. That's what keeps us going.
Scientists warn that constant fear and anger are bad for our health, while being compassionate and warm-hearted contributes to our physical and mental well-being. Therefore, just as we observe physical hygiene to stay well, we need to cultivate a kind of emotional hygiene too.
There is a link between our physical and verbal actions and emotions. If, instead of anger, hatred and suspicion, we are moved by loving-kindness, we will naturally have greater respect for others and our actions will be non-violent.
There are always problems to face, but it makes a difference if our minds are calm. On the surface we may get upset, but it makes a difference if we are able to stay calm in the depths of our minds.
Humanity's thirst for natural resources can only be sustained if we adapt our patterns of consumption. Competition for necessities like water, food and land will inevitably intensify. To meet the challenge of climate change and environmental depletion we must all cooperate.
Not only is it the case that happy people are more willing to help others, but as I generally point out, helping others is the best way to help yourself, the best way to promote your own happiness. It is you, yourself, who will receive the benefit.
Compassion reduces our fear, boosts our confidence, and opens us to inner strength. By reducing distrust, it opens us to others and brings us a sense of connections with them and a sense of purpose and meaning in life.
I feel that it's crucial to have a clear recognition of the value of your objective. That's the important thing. Recognizing that your objective is worthy, because it involves others' welfare or the general well-being of the community, gives you the determination to pursue it.
In the modern world, where the pursuit of money is considered more important than the cultivation of inner values a fresh approach is required to incorporate secular ethics or universal values into the system of education.
Our real enemies and the enemies of humanity are negative emotions like anger and hatred. Indeed, people who are dominated by powerful negative emotions should be objects of our compassion.
Change in the world comes from individuals, from the inner peace in individual hearts. Just as ripples spread out when a single pebble is dropped into water, the actions of individuals can have far-reaching effects.
In our day to day life warm-heartedness is the key factor for happiness.
World peace can only be based on inner peace. If we ask what destroys our inner peace, it's not weapons and external threats, but our own inner flaws like anger. This is one of the reasons why love and compassion are important, because they strengthen us. This is a source of hope
The many factors which divide us are actually much more superficial than those we share. Despite all of the things that differentiate us - race, language, religion, gender, wealth and so on - we are all equal concerning our fundamental humanity.
When each of us learns to appreciate the critical importance of ethics and makes inner values like compassion and patience an integral part of our basic outlook on life, the effects will be far-reaching.
In today's materialistic world there is a risk of people becoming slaves to money, as though they were simply cogs in a huge money-making machine. This does nothing for human dignity, freedom, and genuine well-being. Wealth should serve humanity, and not the other way around.
Peace has a great deal to do with warm-heartedness and respect for the lives of others, avoiding doing them harm and regarding their lives as being as precious as our own. If, on that basis, we can also be of help to others, so much the better.
Insofar as the destructive effects of anger and hateful thoughts are concerned, one cannot get protection from wealth nor education. The only factor that can give protection from the destructive effects of anger and hatred is the practice of tolerance and patience.
Because of the great differences in our ways of thinking, it is inevitable that we have different religions and faiths. Each has its own beauty. And it is much better that we live together on the basis of mutual respect and mutual admiration.
Practicing compassion, caring for others and sharing their problems, lays the foundation for a meaningful life, not only at the level of the individual, family or community, but also for humanity as a whole.
The very purpose of spirituality is self-discipline. Rather than criticizing others, we should evaluate and criticize ourselves. Ask yourself, what am I doing about my anger, my attachment, my pride, my jealousy? These are the things we should check in our day to day lives.
Genuine friends, are attracted by a warm heart, not money, not power. A genuine friend considers you as just another human being, as a brother or sister, and shows affection on that level, regardless of whether you are rich or poor, or in a high position; that is a genuine friend
Compassion suits our physical condition, whereas anger, fear and distrust are harmful to our well-being. Therefore, just as we learn the importance of physical hygiene to physical health, to ensure healthy minds, we need to learn some kind of emotional hygiene.
Although I am a Buddhist monk, I am skeptical that prayers alone will achieve world peace. We need instead to be enthusiastic and self-confident in taking action.
I believe the ultimate source of blessings is within us. A good motivation and honesty bring self-confidence, which attracts the trust and respect of others. Therefore the real source of blessings is in our own mind.
The basic foundation of humanity is compassion and love. This is why, if even a few individuals simply try to create mental peace and happiness within themselves and act responsibly and kind-heartedly towards others, they will have a positive influence in their community.
Many people think that patience is a sign of weakness. I think this is a mistake. It is anger that is a sign of weakness, whereas patience is a sign of strength.
Developing inner values is much like physical exercise. The more we train our abilities, the stronger they become. The difference is that, unlike the body, when it comes to training the mind, there is no limit to how far we can go.
What's past is past, nothing can change that. But the future can be different if we choose to make it so. We have to cultivate a vision of a happier, more peaceful future and make the effort now to bring it about. This is no time for complacency, hope lies in the action we take.
Destructive thoughts and emotions undermine the very causes of peace and happiness. If you think clearly about it, it makes no sense to think you're seeking happiness, if you do nothing to restrain angry, spiteful, and malicious thoughts and emotions.
Modern education pays little attention to inner values and yet our basic human nature is compassionate. We need to incorporate compassion and warm-heartedness into the modern education system to make it more holistic.
I really feel that some people neglect and overlook compassion because they associate it with religion. Of course, everyone is free to choose whether they pay religion any regard, but to neglect compassion is a mistake because it is the source of our own well-being.
Whether science or religion is constructive or destructive depends on our motivation and whether we are guided by a real concern for the well-being of others and an appreciation of the oneness of humanity.
I am convinced we can become happier individuals, happier communities and a happier humanity by cultivating a warm heart, allowing our better selves to prevail.
Karma means action and action motivated by compassion is good. To complain that what happens to you is just the result of your karma is lazy. Instead, confidently recalling the advice that, "You are your own master," you can change what happens by taking action.
Within each of us exists the potential to contribute positively to society. Although one individual among so many on this planet may seem too insignificant, it is our personal efforts that will determine the direction our society is heading.
We need to strengthen such inner values as contentment, patience and tolerance, as well as compassion for others. Keeping in mind that it is expressions of affection rather than money and power that attract real friends, compassion is the key to ensuring our own well-being.
I consider non-violence to be compassion in action. It doesn't mean weakness, cowering in fear, or simply doing nothing. It is to act without violence, motivated by compassion, recognizing the rights of others.
Meditation is about keeping the mind clear; thinking deeply about reality. It's about thinking about our emotions, asking ourselves 'Why do I feel angry?' and coming to understand the advantages and sound basis of positive emotions like warm-heartedness.
Peace in the world depends on peace within. If we have that we can approach problems in a spirit of compassion, dialogue and respect for the rights of others, always a better solution than resorting to a use of weapons and force. External disarmament depends on inner disarmament.
Peace is not brought about through conflict, but through compassion, creating peace of mind within ourselves. We all need compassion and women can take a lead role in encouraging others to let it flower within them. My own first teacher of kindness and compassion was my mother.
Some people mistakenly conclude that cultivating compassion is all about others' benefit, whereas the first benefit is to us. Compassion brings us peace of mind. It attracts friends. Friends are based on trust and trust develops when we show concern for others.
What is important is not so much how long you live as whether you live a meaningful life. This doesn't mean accumulating money and fame, but being of service to your fellow human beings. It means helping others if you can, but even if you can't do that, at least not harming them.
We can change our minds. We don't have to give in to anger and hatred. Since compassion and anger cannot co-exist, the more we cultivate compassion the more our anger will be reduced.
I don't like formality. There's no formality when we're born and none when we die. In between we should treat each other as brothers and sisters because we all want to live a happy life. This is our common purpose and our right.
Anger and aggression sometimes seem to be protective because they bring energy to bear on a particular situation, but that energy is blind. It takes a calm mind to be able to consider things from different angles and points of view.
The use of force may control people physically, but it won't change their hearts and minds. You can only do that on the basis of trust and friendship.
Change in the world always begins with an individual who shares what he or she has learned and passes it on to others.
The most crucial use of knowledge and education is to understand the importance of developing a good heart.
We all want to live a happy life, which is our right, and the key to doing so is developing compassion for others.
We need to improve the current education system by introducing instructions on ways to cultivate positive emotions like warm-heartedness.
Compassion brings inner peace and whatever else is going on, that peace of mind allows us to see the whole picture more clearly.
Compassion is the essence of a spiritual life, to be successful in practicing love and compassion, patience and tolerance are indispensable.
I'm convinced that today's young people can achieve a more peaceful world if they cultivate warm-heartedness and inner peace.
The more compassionate our mind, the more we'll be able to lead our lives transparently, honestly, truthfully, with nothing to hide.
People go to great lengths to look physically attractive, but inner beauty is a more important and stronger basis for lasting relationships.
As social animals we need friends and what attracts them is trust. And trust grows when we show real concern for others' well-being.
Peace doesn't come from prayer alone, it requires us to take action. Our goal should be a demilitarized world. #PeaceDayChallenge
Whatever our religious faith, showing others loving kindness is the best way to bring about inner peace.
What we need today are universal values based not on faith but on scientific findings, common experience and common sense.
I'm just one human being, but I believe each one of us has a responsibility to contribute to a happier humanity.
Religious people pray for peace, but prayer alone is not enough, what will bring peace in the world is people cultivating peace of mind.
As a human brother I'm committed to letting people know that we all possess the seeds of love and compassion.
Using harsh words reflects narrow-mindedness, to be happy and joyful we need friends. Friendship is based on trust and treating others kindly
Just as we protect our health by observing physical hygiene, by tackling our destructive emotions with skill we'll achieve emotional hygiene
You may control people physically by force, but you won't change their hearts and minds, that requires trust and friendship.
By learning to be more warm-hearted we can create a more compassionate world.
When I heard scientists say they had evidence that basic human nature is compassionate, I thought, 'There's real hope.'
Inner beauty, warm-heartedness and compassion, is what brings about peace of mind.
Fear and suspicion won't help us live together. We have to cultivate warm-heartedness.
If we were really to see one another as brothers and sisters, there would be no basis for division, cheating and exploitation among us.
We all want to live a happy life, so we have to learn to live together in trust and mutual respect.
If you have a warm heart and you care for others you'll be happy and the community in which you live will be happier too.
Education today needs not only to develop our intelligence, but also to support basic human values of warm-heartedness and compassion.
There is no fortitude like patience, just as there is no destructive emotion worse than hatred. Therefore, practice patience and tolerance.
Since loving kindness is the basis of a happy life, It's my number one commitment to promote awareness of the importance of warm-heartedness
We experience happiness on a sensory level that is relatively short-lived. But lasting happiness is related to our state of mind.
Compassion brings us peace of mind. It brings a smile to our face and genuine smiles bring us closer together.
On a mental level kindness and compassion give rise to lasting joy. They reduce fear.
A more peaceful world and a more peaceful century require that we rely not on weapons but on developing a widespread inner peace.
We are all social animals and compassion, care and concern for others bring us together.
Having a calm and compassionate mind enables us to use our natural intelligence more effectively.
Protecting our environment is not a luxury we can choose to enjoy, but a simple matter of survival.
Peace in the world depends on our relating to each other with compassion.
Although bringing about inner change is difficult, it is absolutely worthwhile to try. What is important is to try our best.
Motivation is very important. We can show love, respect for others, and honesty in whatever we do to help humanity.
If human society loses the value of justice, compassion, and honesty, the next generation will face greater difficulties and more suffering.
The happiness of childhood, the calming of a child's fears and the healthy development of its self-confidence depend directly upon love.
Money and power attract friends. But it's not you they're friends with , just your money and power. Only affection brings genuine friends.
If in day to day life you lead a good life, honestly, with love, compassion, and less selfishness, then automatically you will find peace.
The future can be different if we choose to make it so. There is no time for complacency, hope lies in what action we take.
Anger may seem to be a source of energy, but it's blind. It causes us to lose our restraint. It may stir courage, but that too is blind.
It is in the nature of the mind that the more we cultivate and familiarize ourselves with positive emotions, the more powerful they become.
This Earth Day we need a greater sense of global responsibility based on our belonging to one human family.
While material development contributes to physical comfort, mental comfort depends on compassion, which expresses itself as nonviolence.
It is not enough simply to wish that love and compassion grow within us. We need a sustained effort to cultivate such positive qualities.
The aim of spiritual practice is to transform and perfect our motivation and mental disposition, so we can become better human beings.
Positive emotions like compassion and loving kindness engender in us a deep sense of peace and serenity, and benefits others as well.
We can make this a more peaceful century if we cherish non-violence and concern for others' well-being.
Some scientists have found evidence to show that basic human nature is compassionate. This is a really hopeful sign.
All religions have the potential to create better human beings, but no one religion can claim supremacy over the other.
To really be of help to others we need to be guided by compassion.
Caring for others is the best way to fulfil our own interests. We are social animals; we need to be warm-hearted and to take care of others.
Love and compassion are important, because they strengthen us. This is a source of hope
We have to cultivate a vision of a happier, more peaceful future and make the effort now to bring it about.
The purpose of education is to build a happier society, we need a more holistic approach that promotes the practice of love and compassion.
It's not what work we choose to do, the crucial point is doing it with a positive and altruistic motivation.
Be a kind and compassionate person. This is the inner beauty that is a key factor to making a better world.
Inner peace helps sustain good health, gives rise to happy individuals, happy families, happy communities and ultimately a happy humanity.
Be honest, truthful and warm-hearted. Make compassion the basis of your determination.
If our goal is a happier, more peaceful world in the future, only education will bring change.
The ultimate source of happiness for self and others is compassion, concern for others and being of service to them.
We know that everyone who is born has to die, but the important thing is that while we are alive we should make our lives meaningful.
If there can be a greater sense of oneness in the world, then violence and killing will end.
When we talk about happiness, we must think in terms of peace of mind, which is a real source of joy.
When you have a more compassionate mind and cultivate warmheartedness, the whole atmosphere around you becomes more positive and friendlier.
On this International Day of Peace, we must remember that peace cannot come from prayer alone. It requires action. #PeaceDayChallenge
The quality of every human activity ultimately depends on our motivation.
Change starts with us as individuals. If one individual becomes more compassionate it will influence others and so we will change the world.
Genuine compassion, unbiased and not mixed with attachment, is a source of genuine human happiness.
Meaningful dialogue requires us to respect others' rights and interests, compromise is the only way to resolve disputes.
Friendship depends on trust, not money, not power, not education. Only if there's trust will there be friendship.
Different religious traditions can live together on the basis of mutual admiration, mutual respect, and learning from each other.
We are all human beings possessing a seed of compassion. We have to use our intelligence to cultivate the inner values associated with it.
Whether we believe in religion or not, affection and compassion are key factors for our peace of mind.
We think that if we have health and wealth they're enough to be happy, but actually happiness depends on the state of our minds.
Problems created by human beings have to be solved by human beings. Basic human nature is compassionate and this is our source of hope.
If you show concern for others and respect for their rights you will establish trust; and trust is the basis of friendship.
We may sometimes feel that we can't do much as individuals, but humanity is made up of individuals; we can make a difference.
We are now so interdependent that it is in our own interest to take the whole of humanity into account.
We need to pay more attention to the inner values that are the key to our happiness.
Genuine peace in the world depends on our having peace in our hearts. If we are full of anger how can we expect to bring about peace.
There are always problems to face, but it makes a difference if our minds are calm.
Friendship depends on trust and trust grows when we live our lives honestly and sincerely, cultivating respect and concern for others.
If we start now and make the effort, we can make the world a more peaceful place. We have to try.
Being concerned about others does not mean you forgo fulfilling your own needs, but that if you do help others there is mutual benefit.
Problems created by human beings have to be solved by human beings. Basic human nature is compassionate and this is our source of hope.
Inner peace depends on warm-heartedness and a concern for others' well being.
Building trust depends on concern for others and defending their rights, not doing them harm.
If we remember the oneness of humanity and think of each other as brothers and sisters we can overcome that potential for violence.
This planet is our only home; we are all responsible for taking care of it. I'm happy to see leaders now taking climate change seriously.
The time has come for us to consider seriously how to change our way of life not through prayer or religious teaching, but through education
Because society is the basis of our own happiness, it makes sense for us to take care of others.
Creating a better world will require will-power, vision and determination. And for that we need a strong sense that humanity is one family.
The distinction between violence and non-violence lies less in the nature of the action and more in the motivation with which it is done.
Physical comfort alone does not bring inner peace. We create inner peace within the mind.
We need friendship, which depends on trust. And that depends on concern for others, defending their rights, and not doing them harm.
Whether technology's effect is good or bad depends on the user. It's important that we shouldn't be slaves to technology; it should help us.
Cultivating warm-heartedness and compassion is something we can all do.
Just as cold is dispelled by heat, its opposite, anger and loving-kindness counter one another.
Open hearts encourage a sense of security and trust that is the basis of genuine friendship, which is to everyone's benefit.
We will only create a more peaceful and harmonious world if we adopt a peaceful approach and engage openly in dialogue.
Love and affection are important if we are to live a happy life.
What is important today is that we consciously cultivate a sense of the oneness of humanity, because we all depend on each other.
Friendship doesn't depend on fame, money or physical strength. It's based on trust and trust depends on love and affection.
If you live your life honestly and truthfully, you'll be open and transparent, which leads to trust. And trust leads to friendship.
We have to make a special effort to think of each other as fellow human beings, as our brothers and sisters.
We have a marvelous brain, but have to use it properly. It's scientific to be skeptical, to research and experiment. An approach I admire.
When you help others, do so out of respect. Don't look down on them. Serve other human beings with a compassionate intent.
Climate change affects everyone, all nations, not just one or two. Consider it a global issue; national interests will automatically be met.
This planet is our home and Tibet its roof.  
When faced with problems, don't lose hope. Keep up your self-confidence and don't be too impatient to achieve quick results.
We need to promote the oneness of all human beings, on the basis of which there are no grounds for killing or exploiting others.
It is possible to use our intelligence and extend our compassion to others, including even our enemies.
Tibet's ecology needs protecting, not just for Tibetans, but for the health and sustainability of the entire world
Fundamentally, all spiritual traditions help us train our minds, overcome our negativities and fulfill our inner potential.
The future is in your hands, but for it to be peaceful and happy requires a sense of compassion and concern for others' well-being.
Many think that happiness is to be found outside ourselves in material things, but actually happiness is something that comes from within.
Changing the world is up to us. If each of us tries, the next generation may see a happier, more peaceful world emerge.
Let's remember that world peace results from individuals like us finding lasting peace within #PeaceDayChallenge
To serve others and not only to secure their welfare, but also to avoid harming them, is the standard of a meaningful life.
As human beings, equipped with marvelous intelligence and the potential for developing a warm heart, each of us can become a force for good
It's unrealistic to think that the future of humanity can be achieved through prayer or good wishes alone; what we need is to take action.
The goal of happier human beings living together, supporting each other, in a more peaceful world, is, I believe, something we can achieve.
Loving is of even greater importance than being loved.
The use of force and violence inevitably entails unanticipated consequences, but rarely yields a solution.
Compassion reduces our fear, boosts our confidence, and opens us to inner strength.
The moment you think of others, your mind widens.
Japan, the one country to have suffered nuclear attack, has taken the lead in opposing nuclear weapons. I strongly urge you to keep it up.
To create a happier humanity we have to pay more attention to our inner values, whether we are religious or not.
The real troublemaker is within us. Our true enemies are our own destructive tendencies.
To cultivate genuine compassion we need to take responsibility for our own care and have concern for everyone's suffering, including our own
If we're motivated by a genuine sense of universal responsibility our relations with the environment and our neighbors will be more balanced
What makes our human life precious is our marvelous brain. We have an ability to cultivate compassion in a way no other beings can do.
The greatest threat we face today is violence.
The gun may seem more decisive in the short term, but in the long term the power of truth is stronger.
When we wake up we can remind ourselves - "I need to be happy, I need to have warm feelings towards others."
We all want to be happy and avoid suffering, and we all have a right to be happy. That's why I say we are all the same.
To create a happier humanity we have to pay more attention to our inner values, whether we are religious or not.
A truthful, compassionate attitude is a sign of strength. It's lying and anger that betray weakness.
Since climate change and the global economy now affect us all, we have to develop a sense of the oneness of humanity.
We all have the potential to develop unbiased love and concern for other human beings.
To reduce destructive emotions we need to strengthen constructive emotions. For example, to counter anger we cultivate love and compassion.
It's important is to show children affection to give them a sense of security and the ability to be affectionate for the rest of their lives
Ask yourselves now and then, "How can I contribute to human beings being happier and more at peace?"
As human beings we are all responsible for each other; we all have the potential to be kind and affectionate.
When our mind is calm, we're better able to find peace of mind and live a joyful life.
Since we are not solely material creatures, it is a mistake to base all our hopes for happiness on external development alone.
Common sense tells us we'll be happy even if we're poor if we're warm-hearted, whereas if we're wealthy but self-centred we'll be miserable
Kindness and compassion give rise to self-confidence, which in turn empowers us to be honest, truthful and transparent.
Giving in to anger, fear and suspicion disturbs our minds and our physical well-being, whereas trust and friendship are the basis of society
Because all religious traditions teach love, tolerance and forgiveness, and share a common goal, we can appreciate and respect them all.
Deep down we must have a real affection for each other, a clear recognition of our shared status as human beings.
Doing to harm to others may bring some temporary satisfaction, but being helpful to them is the only real source of lasting joy.
Our potential for positive and negative emotions is the same, but intelligence is our special quality. Use it well; be successful and happy.
The future is in the hands of those who belong to the 21st century with the opportunity to build a better humanity by training the mind.
Friends are made on the basis of trust and trust only grows if you are kind to people.
It is important to teach young people at school that violence is a fruitless approach to solving problems.
It's clear that the ultimate source of happiness is warm-heartedness.
Anger cannot coexist with inner peace, which is the principal characteristic of happiness.
When our mind is calm, we're better able to find peace of mind and live a joyful life.
If we have respect and concern for other beings, we'll be able to create an atmosphere of happiness, harmony and real brotherhood
One of our best human qualities is intelligence; it enables us to judge what is beneficial and what brings harm.
In our daily lives, mindfulness, a more holistic and compassionate attitude helps us keep our peace of mind; it's good for our health too.
Compassion is not just the business of the religious; it is important to know it's everyone's business, it is a question of human survival.
We need to strike a balance between material and spiritual progress, a balance achieved on the basis of love and compassion.
Only tolerance and patience can protect us from the destructive effects of anger and hatred.
Everyone can practise non-violence, it only calls for determination. If you succeed, it will open the way to a far more peaceful world.
Affection and compassion are indispensable in daily life.
Idealistic as it may sound, altruism should be the driving force in business, not just competition and a desire for wealth.
True compassion isn't just an emotional response, it's a firm commitment founded on reason, which doesn't change if others behave badly.
Determination, courage, self-confidence lead to success, but we should always remain humble, modest and unpretentious.
Showing respect for others' rights and views is not only the source of reconciliation it's also an aspect of compassion.
Tolerance is always important, it helps us overcome difficulties. Without it, small things irritate us and we overreact.
Material development only gives us sensory pleasure, but to be lastingly happy we need to develop our minds. We need calm minds.
Being aware of a single shortcoming within yourself is far more useful than being aware of a thousand in someone else.
The purpose of religion is not building grand temples but cultivating positive human qualities like tolerance, generosity and love.
We can develop patience and change our attitudes through steady practice - the human mind has such potential.
Concern yourselves more with the needs of others, with the needs of all humanity, and you'll have peace of mind.
Compassion suits our physical condition, whereas anger, fear and distrust are harmful to our well-being.
True friendship develops not as a result of money or power but on the basis of genuine human affection.
If we were to think of other people as our human brothers and sisters, there'd be no room for quarrelling or killing each other.
You can't buy inner peace or wisdom with money. You have to create them within yourself.
Without technology humanity has no future, but we have to be careful that we don't become so mechanised that we lose our human feelings.
To meet this century's challenges, human beings need a greater sense of universal responsibility.
Compassion should be unbiased, based on a recognition that others have a right to happiness, just as you do.
Love and kindness are the very basis of society. If we lose these positive emotions, society will face tremendous difficulties.
Human rights apply to every country because all human beings share an inherent yearning for freedom, dignity and equality.
If you develop care and concern for others, you'll develop a kind of inner strength in spite of your own difficulties and problems.
We need to balance material and spiritual progress, acting with love and compassion can help achieve that balance.
I believe that human nature is fundamentally positive and gentle; therefore, a human approach should be non-violent.
If we do nothing to restrain our angry, spiteful, and malicious thoughts and emotions, happiness will elude us.
Even small acts of compassion bring meaning and purpose to our lives.
My number one commitment is to extend awareness that peace of mind depends on our cultivating inner values.
Affection, warm-heartedness, that makes us happy; wealth alone can't do that.
The value of compassion and forgiveness is not confined to matters of religion. These are human values that we shouldn't neglect.
Patience as we wait to take action is a kind of compassionate mind. Impatience on the other hand can be a source of failure.
A calm mind makes us relaxed, improves our health and makes for happier families and communities.
Affection, a sense of community and a sense of concern for others are not some kind of luxury. They're about the survival of humanity.
Cultivating a genuine sense of concern for others' well-being is the basis for the trust that makes happiness and friendship possible.
If you make others happy, you'll be happy. If you make others unhappy, you'll be miserable.
We are social animals and it is in our own interest, if we want to live a happy life, to think of the rest of humanity.
It's not just money we need to lead a happy life; more important is to find inner peace.
Compassion indicates strength, while anger is a sign of weakness and forgiveness is about not giving in to anger or thoughts of revenge.
If we want to improve humanity, we have to start with individuals.
Tackling destructive emotions like anger and hatred entails developing constructive emotions like love and compassion.
Our intelligence needs to be guided by warm-heartedness.
If you're angry and resentful it's like being part of a chain reaction; forgiveness puts a stop to anger, ill-will and a desire for revenge.
It is evident that to help others rather than harming them, treating them with love and compassion leads to lasting trust and friendship.
The idea of one side suffering defeat while the other side triumphs is out of date. Instead we have to develop dialogue.
In order to derive the maximum benefit the wise thing is take care of others.
Developing an attitude more concerned with others reduces fear and fosters friendship.
When we have an altruistic motivation, all our actions become constructive.
We need cooperation based on trust and self-confidence to create an open, compassionate, harmonious society.
There needs to be a systematic approach to introducing inner values, a warm-hearted concern for all human beings, into education.
Compassion is a source of happiness, while self-centerdness can lead ultimately to violence.
Warm-heartedness and concern for others' well-being are a condition for happiness, whether you are religious or not.
Non-violence is when one has the chance to harm another but resists from doing so, this is genuine non-violence.
The quality of our actions, whether they are positive or negative, depends on our motivation. This is why we have to transform our minds.
We need to consider how our actions affect wildlife and the environment, and how they are likely to affect others.
I often tease young people about their concern for how they look; more important is inner beauty - compassion, affection and respect.
Wherever I go I try to hold discussions with members of other religious traditions, because it is important to get to know about them.
The more we are concerned for the well-being of others, the closer we will feel to each other.
If we cherish non-violence and concern for others' well-being it is possible to make this a more peaceful century.
A meaningful life isn't about acquiring money and other facilities; it's about dedicating your life to helping others as much as you can.
As a human being, I believe each one of us should have some concern for others and for the planet.
It is always helpful to remain honest and truthful in the face of difficulty.
In addition to modern education, there is a need to learn how to achieve inner peace.
Pay more attention to compassion and you'll find you're happier. It's that practical and simple.
We need to see that anger is never any use in solving problems, but that patience and compassion are helpful.
If tragedy strikes, don't lose hope. Transform it into an opportunity to make things better.
When you are concerned for the welfare of others, bullying and exploitation cease.
We have to try to solve local problems keeping global interests in mind.
We can teach people how to be happy on the basis of secular ethics, that a compassionate mind is useful, beneficial and secular in nature.
The power of truth never declines. Force and violence may be effective in the short term, but in the long run it's truth that prevails.
Concern for others is not just a matter of religious practice; it's a practical step towards creating a happy society.
Even people opposed to religion need calm minds and compassion to make their work more effective.
We all need basic human values rooted in trust and affection.
Warm-heartedness gives rise to the self-confidence and inner strength that supports a calm mind.
Just as we teach about physical hygiene in the interest of good health, we now need to teach about mental or emotional hygiene too.
It is important to appreciate the contribution compassion and warm-heartedness make to happiness.
Everyone wants to lead a happy life, a meaningful life. In order to fulfil this goal our practice should be realistic.
When you face problems in your lives, don't resort to the use of force, try to employ dialogue to find a solution.
Whether we follow a religious path or not, as human beings we all need affection.
We must design education that provides for both knowledge and a healthy mind, creating a sense of compassion that responds to all humanity.
We have to build a better, more equal world through peace and non-violence.
It would help if there were greater understanding that anger never helps to solve a problem.
Leading your life honestly and truthfully will create trust and friendship.
Now we're so interdependent, we need to build trust and confidence. On a national or personal level self-centredness is a source of trouble.
You can't help someone just by making a wish to do so, you have to take action.
We need a sense of belonging to one humanity, respecting the rights and views of others.
If you dedicate yourself to helping others, you'll be happier.
We can only transform humanity and create a happier more compassionate world through education.
Today, let us wish each other a Happy New Year, but also that we may make it meaningful.
No matter what our motivation may be, if we are not realistic we will not fulfil our goal.
In order to exercise creativity, freedom of thought is essential.
We cannot change the past, but we can reshape the future. Young people have the opportunity to create a happier, better future
All beings want to live in peace and happiness, undisturbed. Therefore the concept of human rights is universal.
Anger and hatred lead to fear; compassion and concern for others allow us to develop self-confidence, which breeds trust and friendship.
It's harmful to employ technology fired by anger and hatred. It can only be beneficial if we're motivated to seek the welfare of all beings.
Sometimes things go wrong; that's normal. But we have a saying in Tibetan, 'Nine times fail, nine times try again'.
Because of the risks involved in indulging in unrestrained desire and greed we need to cultivate contentment and simplicity.
I believe compassion to be one of the few things we can practice that will bring immediate and long-term happiness to our lives.
Not only is your own happiness and welfare related to others, but the more you help them, the happier you will be.
I try to treat whoever I meet as an old friend. This gives me a genuine feeling of happiness.
Since we are increasingly interdependent it's time to develop a sense of global responsibility, to help each other and promote human values.
Great changes start with individuals; the basis of world peace is inner peace in the hearts of individuals, something we can all work for.
If we have a good heart and concern for others, our actions will be positive.
The challenge today is to convince people of the value of truth, honesty, compassion and a concern for others.
Love and compassion are qualities that human beings require just to live together.
We need values based on common sense, experience and scientific findings, what I refer to as secular ethics.
If you want change, create the causes.
Having a compassionate attitude is the ultimate basis for living a happy life.
Prayer can be of great solace to the individual, but changing the world requires us to take action.
If we make a common attempt to improve our education systems, we can educate the coming generations to be more compassionate.
As human beings, we have a common responsibility to build a more peaceful society.
The opponent of peace of mind is not something external, but within us.
Use your human intelligence in the best way you can; transform your emotions in a positive way.
Fear that makes us run from a mad dog is useful and necessary, whereas fear rooted in mistrust is unhelpful and needs to be overcome.
In order to derive the maximum benefit the wise thing is to take care of others.
Forgiveness is how we put a stop to anger, ill-will and a desire for revenge.
If we have peace of mind, we'll always feel happy. Deceiving ourselves that money is the source of happiness, we won't.
I'm optimistic that there is a growing appetite for peace in the world. Many young people are fed up with war and violence.
Warm-heartedness is the key factor that allows me to smile and be happy, even in the company of strangers.
Blessings don't come from outside, but from within. Whatever blessings we receive are the result of our own efforts and positive actions.
Anger destroys our peace of mind and causes trouble. It also hampers our ability to function properly.
Wherever I go I talk to people about the need to be aware of the oneness of humanity.
Compassion is what makes our lives meaningful.
Instead of harboring fear and suspicion we need to think of other people not as 'them' but 'us'.
It is important to let people know that they have the source of contentment and happiness within themselves.
Peace can only be achieved through non-violence. This is something we have to train and educate our children to put into effect.
A person who practices compassion and forgiveness has great inner strength, whereas aggression is usually a sign of weakness.
Among human beings trust comes about, not from expressions of wealth or fame, but from our showing affection.
When you concern yourself with others, you naturally develop a sense of self-confidence. To help others takes courage and inner strength.
Despite the superficial differences between us, we need to have a sense that all 7 billion human beings belong to one human family.
What we do need to do is to find ways to incorporate advice about warm-heartedness into our education system.
When we develop care and concern by thinking of others not as 'them' but 'us', there is no room for bullying, exploitation or deceit.
Genuine peace is based on inner peace, because you cannot build peace on the basis of anger.
We naturally have self-interest but it should be wise rather than foolish self-interest by taking others needs into account as well as ours.
If we make consistent effort, based on proper education, we can change the world.
Everybody wants a happy life and a peaceful mind, but we have to produce peace of mind through our own practice.
Just as ripples spread out when a single pebble is dropped into water, the actions of individuals can have far-reaching effects.
Serving and helping others out of compassion is non-violence in action.
Concern for others' well being reduces fear and suspicion, prompting the openness and transparency that gives rise to trust and friendship.
We live in a world in which we are dependent on others; we cannot expect to fulfil our goals while disregarding others' needs.
When you are warm-hearted, there is no room for anger, jealousy or insecurity.
Past history clearly shows that violence cannot solve problems.
A great Tibetan teacher of mind training once remarked that one of the mind's most marvelous qualities is that it can be transformed.
Genuine happiness comes from focusing on the happiness of others.
Once you have a genuine sense of concern for others, there's no room for cheating, bullying or exploitation.
Peace isn't the mere absence of violence; peace must come from inner peace. And inner peace comes from taking others' interests into account
Warm-heartedness and concern for others are a part of human nature and are at the core of positive human values.
A happy society must be created by people themselves, not through prayer alone, but by taking action.
I like to point out that our nature is basically compassionate because we are social animals. What brings us together is love and affection.
We need to understand that material development by itself it doesn't bring peace of mind. This can only be developed within the mind.
Who is there among us who does not prefer tolerance, respect and forgiveness of our failings to bigotry, disrespect, and resentment?
Through constant training we can enhance our positive attitudes and thoughts and reduce their opposing negative attitudes.
A genuine change must first come from within the individual, only then can he or she attempt to make a significant contribution to humanity.
Today's children are hugely important, our hopes for the future lie in their hands and rest on their shoulders.
I am increasingly convinced that the time has come to find a way of thinking about spirituality and ethics beyond religion altogether.
The many factors which divide us are actually much more superficial than those we share.
Genuine friendship depends on genuine affection and taking a sense of responsibility for each other.
Human values like democracy, freedom of speech and freedom of the individual, these are changes whose momentum cannot be stopped.
The quality of everything we do: our physical actions, our verbal actions, and even our mental actions, depends on our motivation.
Unlike the body, when it comes to training the mind, there is no limit to how far we can go.
Patience guards us against losing our presence of mind so we can remain undisturbed, even when the situation is really difficult.
If you become more concerned for the welfare of others, you will experience a sense of calm, inner strength and self-confidence.
If we are optimistic, take a longer view, and we employ realistic methods, we can contribute to making the world a better place.
Unbiased love is undoubtedly difficult to generate, but if you practice
with determination, day by day your attitude will be transformed.
Compassion is a mental quality that can bring us true lasting inner peace and inner strength.
We often talk about moral values, justice and trust, but the important thing is to put them into effect in our everyday lives.
Wealth may contribute to our happiness, but it's not the most important factor; by itself wealth fails to bring us deep inner satisfaction.
The more adept we are in cultivating altruism, the happier we will be and the better the atmosphere we will create around us.
Compassion is a marvel of human nature, a precious inner resource, and the foundation of our well-being and the harmony of our societies.
We have to put effort into being honest, truthful and compassionate towards others.
The essence of compassion is a desire to alleviate the suffering of others and to promote their well-being.
While revenge weakens society, forgiveness gives it strength.
A calm mind is really helpful in sustaining a healthy body.
To bring about a better world, let us all strive together with vision, with courage, and with optimism.
The creation of a more peaceful and happier society has to begin from the level of the individual.
It is my hope that the twenty-first century will be a century when a more caring, responsible, and compassionate humanity will emerge.
The real source of happiness involves one's state of mind, outlook, and motivation, and one's level of warmheartedness towards others.
Compassion, along with love, is the face of altruism.
We must work together. Humanity needs more genuine cooperation.
We tend to forget that despite the superficial differences between us, people are equal in their basic wish for peace and happiness.
It is necessary to help others in our daily lives, merely praying for them isn't enough.
Compassion is the wish to offer unbiased service to all beings, whether they are friendly or hostile to you.
As compassion grows stronger, so does your commitment to the welfare of all beings, even if you have to act alone.
Affection, honesty, harmony and non-violence are qualities that yield happiness for individuals, families and society at large.
Once your mind is calm and full of love, there is no room for hatred or fear. Others will trust you because of your open heart. 
We won't bring about peace in the world merely by praying for it; we have to take steps to tackle the violence and corruption that disrupt peace. We can't expect change if we don't take action.
The first drawback of anger is that it destroys our inner peace; the second is that it distorts our view of reality. If we think about this and come to understand that anger is really unhelpful, that it is only destructive, we can begin to distance ourselves from anger.
The creation of a more peaceful and happier society has to begin from the level of the individual, and from there it can expand to one's family, to one's neighborhood, to one's community and so on.
In the present circumstances, no one can afford to assume that someone else will solve their problems. Each one of us has a responsibility to help guide our global family in the right direction. Good wishes are not sufficient; we must become actively engaged.
A sense of contentment is crucial to being happy. Physical health, material wealth and friends contribute to this, but contentment governs our relations with them all.
In our modern society everything seems geared to material development, even our systems of education. As a result we no longer pay sufficient attention to our inner values, which leads to mental unrest. In order to address this imbalance we need to pay more attention to our minds
If we were really to see one another as brothers and sisters, there would be no basis for division, cheating and exploitation among us. Therefore it's important to promote the idea of the oneness of humanity, that in being human we are all the same.
The first of my personal commitments is to work to increase human happiness by encouraging the cultivation of inner values and a sense of concern for others' well being. These are the key factors whether one is a religious person or not.
Since we desire the true happiness that is brought about by a calm mind, and such peace of mind arises only from having a compassionate attitude, we need to make a concerted effort to develop compassion.
As a human being I'm aware that we are all physically, mentally and emotionally the same and we all want to live a happy life. Scientists say our basic nature is compassionate. It's clear that love and affection bring people together.
Irrespective of whether we have faith in religion or not, it's good to be more compassionate. It makes us happier as individuals with a positive influence on our families and the neighborhood where we live.
I am one of the 7 billion human beings alive today. We each have a responsibility to think about humanity and the good of the world because it affects our own future. We weren't born on this planet at this time to create problems but to bring about some benefit.
We can achieve peace of mind if we tackle our destructive emotions, so the goal of making the 21st century an era of peace and compassion is feasible. It will involve finding solutions to problems in dialogue, not the use of force.
We may say prayers when we are trying to solve the problems we face, but it is up to us to put an end to violence and bring about peace. Creating peace is our responsibility. To pray for peace while still engaging in the causes that give rise to violence is contradictory.
Human beings are social animals and it is love that brings us together, while anger drives us apart. To live more peacefully and joyfully in our day to day lives, we need a warm heart.
Making others happy is not a question of sacrificing our own happiness. Trying to make others happy, even when we do not always succeed, is a source of great satisfaction. Anger and hatred are signs of weakness, while compassion is a sure sign of strength.
Many of the problems we face today are our own creation. Creating a more peaceful world requires a peaceful mind and a peaceful heart. As human brothers and sisters we must live together in tolerance and affection.
As human beings we need to assess whether anger has any value - it destroys our peace of mind. Compassion, on the other hand, brings optimism and hope.
The kind of behavior that really is spiritual practice consists of refraining from falsehood and abiding by the truth, neither humiliating nor mocking others, being humble, and having a good heart and helping others.
When our intentions toward others are good, we find that any feelings of anxiety or insecurity we may have are greatly reduced. We experience a liberation from our habitual preoccupation with self and paradoxically, this gives rise to strong feelings of confidence.
Inner transformation is not a matter of faith or prayer. It involves reason and the use of human intelligence. A calm and healthy mind has a very positive effect on our physical health and well-being.
Ethics are not a collection of commandments and prohibitions to abide by, but a natural inner offering that can bring happiness and satisfaction to ourselves and others.
Virtually all of us have benefited from our mother's affection at the start of our lives. When someone is on their deathbed, if he or she is surrounded by loved ones they can pass away peacefully. From birth to death we all need affection.
While many people consider sensory experience as the main source of happiness, really it is peace of mind. What destroys peace of mind is anger, hatred, anxiety and fear. Kindness counters this, and through appropriate education we can learn to tackle such emotions.
Cultivating a close, warm-hearted feeling for others automatically puts the mind at ease. It helps remove whatever fears or insecurities we may have and gives us the strength to cope with any obstacles we encounter. It is the ultimate source of success in life.
I am one of the 7 billion human beings alive today. We each have a responsibility to think about humanity and the good of the world because it affects our own future. We weren't born on this planet at this time to create problems but to bring about some benefit.
If you develop a pure and sincere motivation, if you are motivated by a wish to help on the basis of kindness, compassion, and respect, then you can carry on any kind of work, in any field, and function more effectively.
Prayer by itself is not sufficient to bring about peace of mind. What is much more effective is coming to understand the workings of the mind and learning how to tackle the mental afflictions that disturb it.
I always consider that the shape of the future is in our hands. The past is past and can't be changed, but the future has not yet arrived. Young people have the opportunity and responsibility to shape it by creating a better world.
We may say prayers when we are trying to solve the problems we face, but it is up to us to put an end to violence and bring about peace. Creating peace is our responsibility. To pray for peace while still engaging in the causes that give rise to violence is contradictory.
In today's interconnected and globalized world, it's now commonplace for people of different world views, faiths and races to live side by side. It's a matter of great urgency, therefore, that we find ways to cooperate with one another in a spirit of mutual acceptance and respect
The world belongs to its 7 billion inhabitants. In the past, communities could flourish in isolation, but now we can't. This World Environment Day let's remember that we depend on each other and that to meet the challenge of climate change, we have to work together.
Some people consider the practice of love and compassion is only related to religious practice and if they are not interested in religion they neglect these inner values. But love and compassion are qualities that human beings require just to live together.
Because of our intelligence we human beings are uniquely capable not only of creating problems, but of doing so on a large scale. Therefore, it is important that we use our intelligence in constructive ways. That's what warm-heartedness and concern for others lead us to do.
Everyone wants to lead a peaceful, happy life, but happiness and success aren't measured by how much money you have, but by whether you have inner peace in your heart.
I'm Tibetan, I'm Buddhist and I'm the Dalai Lama, but if I emphasize these differences it sets me apart and raises barriers with other people. What we need to do is to pay more attention to the ways in which we are the same as other people.
People inflict pain on others in their selfish pursuit of happiness and satisfaction. Yet true happiness comes from a sense of brotherhood and sisterhood. We need to cultivate a sense of universal responsibility for one another and the planet we share.
Compassion is of little value if it just remains an idea. It must motivate how we respond to others and be reflected in all our thoughts and actions.
We are, you might say, "brainwashed" into thinking that money is the source of happiness while what we really need to know is that inner peace is something that comes from within.
I often ask myself what is the purpose of our lives and I conclude that life's purpose is to be happy. We have no guarantee what will happen in the future, but we live in hope. That's what keeps us going.
Scientists warn that constant fear and anger are bad for our health, while being compassionate and warm-hearted contributes to our physical and mental well-being. Therefore, just as we observe physical hygiene to stay well, we need to cultivate a kind of emotional hygiene too.
There is a link between our physical and verbal actions and emotions. If, instead of anger, hatred and suspicion, we are moved by loving-kindness, we will naturally have greater respect for others and our actions will be non-violent.
There are always problems to face, but it makes a difference if our minds are calm. On the surface we may get upset, but it makes a difference if we are able to stay calm in the depths of our minds.
Humanity's thirst for natural resources can only be sustained if we adapt our patterns of consumption. Competition for necessities like water, food and land will inevitably intensify. To meet the challenge of climate change and environmental depletion we must all cooperate.
Not only is it the case that happy people are more willing to help others, but as I generally point out, helping others is the best way to help yourself, the best way to promote your own happiness. It is you, yourself, who will receive the benefit.
Compassion reduces our fear, boosts our confidence, and opens us to inner strength. By reducing distrust, it opens us to others and brings us a sense of connections with them and a sense of purpose and meaning in life.
I feel that it's crucial to have a clear recognition of the value of your objective. That's the important thing. Recognizing that your objective is worthy, because it involves others' welfare or the general well-being of the community, gives you the determination to pursue it.
In the modern world, where the pursuit of money is considered more important than the cultivation of inner values a fresh approach is required to incorporate secular ethics or universal values into the system of education.
Our real enemies and the enemies of humanity are negative emotions like anger and hatred. Indeed, people who are dominated by powerful negative emotions should be objects of our compassion.
Change in the world comes from individuals, from the inner peace in individual hearts. Just as ripples spread out when a single pebble is dropped into water, the actions of individuals can have far-reaching effects.
In our day to day life warm-heartedness is the key factor for happiness.
World peace can only be based on inner peace. If we ask what destroys our inner peace, it's not weapons and external threats, but our own inner flaws like anger. This is one of the reasons why love and compassion are important, because they strengthen us. This is a source of hope
The many factors which divide us are actually much more superficial than those we share. Despite all of the things that differentiate us - race, language, religion, gender, wealth and so on - we are all equal concerning our fundamental humanity.
When each of us learns to appreciate the critical importance of ethics and makes inner values like compassion and patience an integral part of our basic outlook on life, the effects will be far-reaching.
In today's materialistic world there is a risk of people becoming slaves to money, as though they were simply cogs in a huge money-making machine. This does nothing for human dignity, freedom, and genuine well-being. Wealth should serve humanity, and not the other way around.
Peace has a great deal to do with warm-heartedness and respect for the lives of others, avoiding doing them harm and regarding their lives as being as precious as our own. If, on that basis, we can also be of help to others, so much the better.
Insofar as the destructive effects of anger and hateful thoughts are concerned, one cannot get protection from wealth nor education. The only factor that can give protection from the destructive effects of anger and hatred is the practice of tolerance and patience.
Because of the great differences in our ways of thinking, it is inevitable that we have different religions and faiths. Each has its own beauty. And it is much better that we live together on the basis of mutual respect and mutual admiration.
Practicing compassion, caring for others and sharing their problems, lays the foundation for a meaningful life, not only at the level of the individual, family or community, but also for humanity as a whole.
The very purpose of spirituality is self-discipline. Rather than criticizing others, we should evaluate and criticize ourselves. Ask yourself, what am I doing about my anger, my attachment, my pride, my jealousy? These are the things we should check in our day to day lives.
Genuine friends, are attracted by a warm heart, not money, not power. A genuine friend considers you as just another human being, as a brother or sister, and shows affection on that level, regardless of whether you are rich or poor, or in a high position; that is a genuine friend
Compassion suits our physical condition, whereas anger, fear and distrust are harmful to our well-being. Therefore, just as we learn the importance of physical hygiene to physical health, to ensure healthy minds, we need to learn some kind of emotional hygiene.
Although I am a Buddhist monk, I am skeptical that prayers alone will achieve world peace. We need instead to be enthusiastic and self-confident in taking action.
I believe the ultimate source of blessings is within us. A good motivation and honesty bring self-confidence, which attracts the trust and respect of others. Therefore the real source of blessings is in our own mind.
The basic foundation of humanity is compassion and love. This is why, if even a few individuals simply try to create mental peace and happiness within themselves and act responsibly and kind-heartedly towards others, they will have a positive influence in their community.
Many people think that patience is a sign of weakness. I think this is a mistake. It is anger that is a sign of weakness, whereas patience is a sign of strength.
Developing inner values is much like physical exercise. The more we train our abilities, the stronger they become. The difference is that, unlike the body, when it comes to training the mind, there is no limit to how far we can go.
What's past is past, nothing can change that. But the future can be different if we choose to make it so. We have to cultivate a vision of a happier, more peaceful future and make the effort now to bring it about. This is no time for complacency, hope lies in the action we take.
Destructive thoughts and emotions undermine the very causes of peace and happiness. If you think clearly about it, it makes no sense to think you're seeking happiness, if you do nothing to restrain angry, spiteful, and malicious thoughts and emotions.
Modern education pays little attention to inner values and yet our basic human nature is compassionate. We need to incorporate compassion and warm-heartedness into the modern education system to make it more holistic.
I really feel that some people neglect and overlook compassion because they associate it with religion. Of course, everyone is free to choose whether they pay religion any regard, but to neglect compassion is a mistake because it is the source of our own well-being.
Whether science or religion is constructive or destructive depends on our motivation and whether we are guided by a real concern for the well-being of others and an appreciation of the oneness of humanity.
I am convinced we can become happier individuals, happier communities and a happier humanity by cultivating a warm heart, allowing our better selves to prevail.
Karma means action and action motivated by compassion is good. To complain that what happens to you is just the result of your karma is lazy. Instead, confidently recalling the advice that, "You are your own master," you can change what happens by taking action.
Within each of us exists the potential to contribute positively to society. Although one individual among so many on this planet may seem too insignificant, it is our personal efforts that will determine the direction our society is heading.
We need to strengthen such inner values as contentment, patience and tolerance, as well as compassion for others. Keeping in mind that it is expressions of affection rather than money and power that attract real friends, compassion is the key to ensuring our own well-being.
I consider non-violence to be compassion in action. It doesn't mean weakness, cowering in fear, or simply doing nothing. It is to act without violence, motivated by compassion, recognizing the rights of others.
Meditation is about keeping the mind clear; thinking deeply about reality. It's about thinking about our emotions, asking ourselves 'Why do I feel angry?' and coming to understand the advantages and sound basis of positive emotions like warm-heartedness.
Peace in the world depends on peace within. If we have that we can approach problems in a spirit of compassion, dialogue and respect for the rights of others, always a better solution than resorting to a use of weapons and force. External disarmament depends on inner disarmament.
Peace is not brought about through conflict, but through compassion, creating peace of mind within ourselves. We all need compassion and women can take a lead role in encouraging others to let it flower within them. My own first teacher of kindness and compassion was my mother.
Some people mistakenly conclude that cultivating compassion is all about others' benefit, whereas the first benefit is to us. Compassion brings us peace of mind. It attracts friends. Friends are based on trust and trust develops when we show concern for others.
What is important is not so much how long you live as whether you live a meaningful life. This doesn't mean accumulating money and fame, but being of service to your fellow human beings. It means helping others if you can, but even if you can't do that, at least not harming them.
We can change our minds. We don't have to give in to anger and hatred. Since compassion and anger cannot co-exist, the more we cultivate compassion the more our anger will be reduced.
I don't like formality. There's no formality when we're born and none when we die. In between we should treat each other as brothers and sisters because we all want to live a happy life. This is our common purpose and our right.
Anger and aggression sometimes seem to be protective because they bring energy to bear on a particular situation, but that energy is blind. It takes a calm mind to be able to consider things from different angles and points of view.
The use of force may control people physically, but it won't change their hearts and minds. You can only do that on the basis of trust and friendship.
Change in the world always begins with an individual who shares what he or she has learned and passes it on to others.
The most crucial use of knowledge and education is to understand the importance of developing a good heart.
We all want to live a happy life, which is our right, and the key to doing so is developing compassion for others.
We need to improve the current education system by introducing instructions on ways to cultivate positive emotions like warm-heartedness.
Compassion brings inner peace and whatever else is going on, that peace of mind allows us to see the whole picture more clearly.
Compassion is the essence of a spiritual life, to be successful in practicing love and compassion, patience and tolerance are indispensable.
I'm convinced that today's young people can achieve a more peaceful world if they cultivate warm-heartedness and inner peace.
The more compassionate our mind, the more we'll be able to lead our lives transparently, honestly, truthfully, with nothing to hide.
People go to great lengths to look physically attractive, but inner beauty is a more important and stronger basis for lasting relationships.
As social animals we need friends and what attracts them is trust. And trust grows when we show real concern for others' well-being.
Peace doesn't come from prayer alone, it requires us to take action. Our goal should be a demilitarized world. #PeaceDayChallenge
Whatever our religious faith, showing others loving kindness is the best way to bring about inner peace.
What we need today are universal values based not on faith but on scientific findings, common experience and common sense.
I'm just one human being, but I believe each one of us has a responsibility to contribute to a happier humanity.
Religious people pray for peace, but prayer alone is not enough, what will bring peace in the world is people cultivating peace of mind.
As a human brother I'm committed to letting people know that we all possess the seeds of love and compassion.
Using harsh words reflects narrow-mindedness, to be happy and joyful we need friends. Friendship is based on trust and treating others kindly
Just as we protect our health by observing physical hygiene, by tackling our destructive emotions with skill we'll achieve emotional hygiene
You may control people physically by force, but you won't change their hearts and minds, that requires trust and friendship.
By learning to be more warm-hearted we can create a more compassionate world.
When I heard scientists say they had evidence that basic human nature is compassionate, I thought, 'There's real hope.'
Inner beauty, warm-heartedness and compassion, is what brings about peace of mind.
Fear and suspicion won't help us live together. We have to cultivate warm-heartedness.
If we were really to see one another as brothers and sisters, there would be no basis for division, cheating and exploitation among us.
We all want to live a happy life, so we have to learn to live together in trust and mutual respect.
If you have a warm heart and you care for others you'll be happy and the community in which you live will be happier too.
Education today needs not only to develop our intelligence, but also to support basic human values of warm-heartedness and compassion.
There is no fortitude like patience, just as there is no destructive emotion worse than hatred. Therefore, practice patience and tolerance.
Since loving kindness is the basis of a happy life, It's my number one commitment to promote awareness of the importance of warm-heartedness
We experience happiness on a sensory level that is relatively short-lived. But lasting happiness is related to our state of mind.
Compassion brings us peace of mind. It brings a smile to our face and genuine smiles bring us closer together.
On a mental level kindness and compassion give rise to lasting joy. They reduce fear.
A more peaceful world and a more peaceful century require that we rely not on weapons but on developing a widespread inner peace.
We are all social animals and compassion, care and concern for others bring us together.
Having a calm and compassionate mind enables us to use our natural intelligence more effectively.
Protecting our environment is not a luxury we can choose to enjoy, but a simple matter of survival.
Peace in the world depends on our relating to each other with compassion.
Although bringing about inner change is difficult, it is absolutely worthwhile to try. What is important is to try our best.
Motivation is very important. We can show love, respect for others, and honesty in whatever we do to help humanity.
If human society loses the value of justice, compassion, and honesty, the next generation will face greater difficulties and more suffering.
The happiness of childhood, the calming of a child's fears and the healthy development of its self-confidence depend directly upon love.
Money and power attract friends. But it's not you they're friends with , just your money and power. Only affection brings genuine friends.
If in day to day life you lead a good life, honestly, with love, compassion, and less selfishness, then automatically you will find peace.
The future can be different if we choose to make it so. There is no time for complacency, hope lies in what action we take.
Anger may seem to be a source of energy, but it's blind. It causes us to lose our restraint. It may stir courage, but that too is blind.
It is in the nature of the mind that the more we cultivate and familiarize ourselves with positive emotions, the more powerful they become.
This Earth Day we need a greater sense of global responsibility based on our belonging to one human family.
While material development contributes to physical comfort, mental comfort depends on compassion, which expresses itself as nonviolence.
It is not enough simply to wish that love and compassion grow within us. We need a sustained effort to cultivate such positive qualities.
The aim of spiritual practice is to transform and perfect our motivation and mental disposition, so we can become better human beings.
Positive emotions like compassion and loving kindness engender in us a deep sense of peace and serenity, and benefits others as well.
We can make this a more peaceful century if we cherish non-violence and concern for others' well-being.
Some scientists have found evidence to show that basic human nature is compassionate. This is a really hopeful sign.
All religions have the potential to create better human beings, but no one religion can claim supremacy over the other.
To really be of help to others we need to be guided by compassion.
Caring for others is the best way to fulfil our own interests. We are social animals; we need to be warm-hearted and to take care of others.
Love and compassion are important, because they strengthen us. This is a source of hope
We have to cultivate a vision of a happier, more peaceful future and make the effort now to bring it about.
The purpose of education is to build a happier society, we need a more holistic approach that promotes the practice of love and compassion.
It's not what work we choose to do, the crucial point is doing it with a positive and altruistic motivation.
Be a kind and compassionate person. This is the inner beauty that is a key factor to making a better world.
Inner peace helps sustain good health, gives rise to happy individuals, happy families, happy communities and ultimately a happy humanity.
Be honest, truthful and warm-hearted. Make compassion the basis of your determination.
If our goal is a happier, more peaceful world in the future, only education will bring change.
The ultimate source of happiness for self and others is compassion, concern for others and being of service to them.
We know that everyone who is born has to die, but the important thing is that while we are alive we should make our lives meaningful.
If there can be a greater sense of oneness in the world, then violence and killing will end.
When we talk about happiness, we must think in terms of peace of mind, which is a real source of joy.
When you have a more compassionate mind and cultivate warmheartedness, the whole atmosphere around you becomes more positive and friendlier.
On this International Day of Peace, we must remember that peace cannot come from prayer alone. It requires action. #PeaceDayChallenge
The quality of every human activity ultimately depends on our motivation.
Change starts with us as individuals. If one individual becomes more compassionate it will influence others and so we will change the world.
Genuine compassion, unbiased and not mixed with attachment, is a source of genuine human happiness.
Meaningful dialogue requires us to respect others' rights and interests, compromise is the only way to resolve disputes.
Friendship depends on trust, not money, not power, not education. Only if there's trust will there be friendship.
Different religious traditions can live together on the basis of mutual admiration, mutual respect, and learning from each other.
We are all human beings possessing a seed of compassion. We have to use our intelligence to cultivate the inner values associated with it.
Whether we believe in religion or not, affection and compassion are key factors for our peace of mind.
We think that if we have health and wealth they're enough to be happy, but actually happiness depends on the state of our minds.
Problems created by human beings have to be solved by human beings. Basic human nature is compassionate and this is our source of hope.
If you show concern for others and respect for their rights you will establish trust; and trust is the basis of friendship.
We may sometimes feel that we can't do much as individuals, but humanity is made up of individuals; we can make a difference.
We are now so interdependent that it is in our own interest to take the whole of humanity into account.
We need to pay more attention to the inner values that are the key to our happiness.
Genuine peace in the world depends on our having peace in our hearts. If we are full of anger how can we expect to bring about peace.
There are always problems to face, but it makes a difference if our minds are calm.
Friendship depends on trust and trust grows when we live our lives honestly and sincerely, cultivating respect and concern for others.
If we start now and make the effort, we can make the world a more peaceful place. We have to try.
Being concerned about others does not mean you forgo fulfilling your own needs, but that if you do help others there is mutual benefit.
Problems created by human beings have to be solved by human beings. Basic human nature is compassionate and this is our source of hope.
Inner peace depends on warm-heartedness and a concern for others' well being.
Building trust depends on concern for others and defending their rights, not doing them harm.
If we remember the oneness of humanity and think of each other as brothers and sisters we can overcome that potential for violence.
This planet is our only home; we are all responsible for taking care of it. I'm happy to see leaders now taking climate change seriously.
The time has come for us to consider seriously how to change our way of life not through prayer or religious teaching, but through education
Because society is the basis of our own happiness, it makes sense for us to take care of others.
Creating a better world will require will-power, vision and determination. And for that we need a strong sense that humanity is one family.
The distinction between violence and non-violence lies less in the nature of the action and more in the motivation with which it is done.
Physical comfort alone does not bring inner peace. We create inner peace within the mind.
We need friendship, which depends on trust. And that depends on concern for others, defending their rights, and not doing them harm.
Whether technology's effect is good or bad depends on the user. It's important that we shouldn't be slaves to technology; it should help us.
Cultivating warm-heartedness and compassion is something we can all do.
Just as cold is dispelled by heat, its opposite, anger and loving-kindness counter one another.
Open hearts encourage a sense of security and trust that is the basis of genuine friendship, which is to everyone's benefit.
We will only create a more peaceful and harmonious world if we adopt a peaceful approach and engage openly in dialogue.
Love and affection are important if we are to live a happy life.
What is important today is that we consciously cultivate a sense of the oneness of humanity, because we all depend on each other.
Friendship doesn't depend on fame, money or physical strength. It's based on trust and trust depends on love and affection.
If you live your life honestly and truthfully, you'll be open and transparent, which leads to trust. And trust leads to friendship.
We have to make a special effort to think of each other as fellow human beings, as our brothers and sisters.
We have a marvelous brain, but have to use it properly. It's scientific to be skeptical, to research and experiment. An approach I admire.
When you help others, do so out of respect. Don't look down on them. Serve other human beings with a compassionate intent.
Climate change affects everyone, all nations, not just one or two. Consider it a global issue; national interests will automatically be met.
This planet is our home and Tibet its roof.  
When faced with problems, don't lose hope. Keep up your self-confidence and don't be too impatient to achieve quick results.
We need to promote the oneness of all human beings, on the basis of which there are no grounds for killing or exploiting others.
It is possible to use our intelligence and extend our compassion to others, including even our enemies.
Tibet's ecology needs protecting, not just for Tibetans, but for the health and sustainability of the entire world
Fundamentally, all spiritual traditions help us train our minds, overcome our negativities and fulfill our inner potential.
The future is in your hands, but for it to be peaceful and happy requires a sense of compassion and concern for others' well-being.
Many think that happiness is to be found outside ourselves in material things, but actually happiness is something that comes from within.
Changing the world is up to us. If each of us tries, the next generation may see a happier, more peaceful world emerge.
Let's remember that world peace results from individuals like us finding lasting peace within #PeaceDayChallenge
To serve others and not only to secure their welfare, but also to avoid harming them, is the standard of a meaningful life.
As human beings, equipped with marvelous intelligence and the potential for developing a warm heart, each of us can become a force for good
It's unrealistic to think that the future of humanity can be achieved through prayer or good wishes alone; what we need is to take action.
The goal of happier human beings living together, supporting each other, in a more peaceful world, is, I believe, something we can achieve.
Loving is of even greater importance than being loved.
The use of force and violence inevitably entails unanticipated consequences, but rarely yields a solution.
Compassion reduces our fear, boosts our confidence, and opens us to inner strength.
The moment you think of others, your mind widens.
Japan, the one country to have suffered nuclear attack, has taken the lead in opposing nuclear weapons. I strongly urge you to keep it up.
To create a happier humanity we have to pay more attention to our inner values, whether we are religious or not.
The real troublemaker is within us. Our true enemies are our own destructive tendencies.
To cultivate genuine compassion we need to take responsibility for our own care and have concern for everyone's suffering, including our own
If we're motivated by a genuine sense of universal responsibility our relations with the environment and our neighbors will be more balanced
What makes our human life precious is our marvelous brain. We have an ability to cultivate compassion in a way no other beings can do.
The greatest threat we face today is violence.
The gun may seem more decisive in the short term, but in the long term the power of truth is stronger.
When we wake up we can remind ourselves - "I need to be happy, I need to have warm feelings towards others."
We all want to be happy and avoid suffering, and we all have a right to be happy. That's why I say we are all the same.
To create a happier humanity we have to pay more attention to our inner values, whether we are religious or not.
A truthful, compassionate attitude is a sign of strength. It's lying and anger that betray weakness.
Since climate change and the global economy now affect us all, we have to develop a sense of the oneness of humanity.
We all have the potential to develop unbiased love and concern for other human beings.
To reduce destructive emotions we need to strengthen constructive emotions. For example, to counter anger we cultivate love and compassion.
It's important is to show children affection to give them a sense of security and the ability to be affectionate for the rest of their lives
Ask yourselves now and then, "How can I contribute to human beings being happier and more at peace?"
As human beings we are all responsible for each other; we all have the potential to be kind and affectionate.
When our mind is calm, we're better able to find peace of mind and live a joyful life.
Since we are not solely material creatures, it is a mistake to base all our hopes for happiness on external development alone.
Common sense tells us we'll be happy even if we're poor if we're warm-hearted, whereas if we're wealthy but self-centred we'll be miserable
Kindness and compassion give rise to self-confidence, which in turn empowers us to be honest, truthful and transparent.
Giving in to anger, fear and suspicion disturbs our minds and our physical well-being, whereas trust and friendship are the basis of society
Because all religious traditions teach love, tolerance and forgiveness, and share a common goal, we can appreciate and respect them all.
Deep down we must have a real affection for each other, a clear recognition of our shared status as human beings.
Doing to harm to others may bring some temporary satisfaction, but being helpful to them is the only real source of lasting joy.
Our potential for positive and negative emotions is the same, but intelligence is our special quality. Use it well; be successful and happy.
The future is in the hands of those who belong to the 21st century with the opportunity to build a better humanity by training the mind.
Friends are made on the basis of trust and trust only grows if you are kind to people.
It is important to teach young people at school that violence is a fruitless approach to solving problems.
It's clear that the ultimate source of happiness is warm-heartedness.
Anger cannot coexist with inner peace, which is the principal characteristic of happiness.
When our mind is calm, we're better able to find peace of mind and live a joyful life.
If we have respect and concern for other beings, we'll be able to create an atmosphere of happiness, harmony and real brotherhood
One of our best human qualities is intelligence; it enables us to judge what is beneficial and what brings harm.
In our daily lives, mindfulness, a more holistic and compassionate attitude helps us keep our peace of mind; it's good for our health too.
Compassion is not just the business of the religious; it is important to know it's everyone's business, it is a question of human survival.
We need to strike a balance between material and spiritual progress, a balance achieved on the basis of love and compassion.
Only tolerance and patience can protect us from the destructive effects of anger and hatred.
Everyone can practise non-violence, it only calls for determination. If you succeed, it will open the way to a far more peaceful world.
Affection and compassion are indispensable in daily life.
Idealistic as it may sound, altruism should be the driving force in business, not just competition and a desire for wealth.
True compassion isn't just an emotional response, it's a firm commitment founded on reason, which doesn't change if others behave badly.
Determination, courage, self-confidence lead to success, but we should always remain humble, modest and unpretentious.
Showing respect for others' rights and views is not only the source of reconciliation it's also an aspect of compassion.
Tolerance is always important, it helps us overcome difficulties. Without it, small things irritate us and we overreact.
Material development only gives us sensory pleasure, but to be lastingly happy we need to develop our minds. We need calm minds.
Being aware of a single shortcoming within yourself is far more useful than being aware of a thousand in someone else.
The purpose of religion is not building grand temples but cultivating positive human qualities like tolerance, generosity and love.
We can develop patience and change our attitudes through steady practice - the human mind has such potential.
Concern yourselves more with the needs of others, with the needs of all humanity, and you'll have peace of mind.
Compassion suits our physical condition, whereas anger, fear and distrust are harmful to our well-being.
True friendship develops not as a result of money or power but on the basis of genuine human affection.
If we were to think of other people as our human brothers and sisters, there'd be no room for quarrelling or killing each other.
You can't buy inner peace or wisdom with money. You have to create them within yourself.
Without technology humanity has no future, but we have to be careful that we don't become so mechanised that we lose our human feelings.
To meet this century's challenges, human beings need a greater sense of universal responsibility.
Compassion should be unbiased, based on a recognition that others have a right to happiness, just as you do.
Love and kindness are the very basis of society. If we lose these positive emotions, society will face tremendous difficulties.
Human rights apply to every country because all human beings share an inherent yearning for freedom, dignity and equality.
If you develop care and concern for others, you'll develop a kind of inner strength in spite of your own difficulties and problems.
We need to balance material and spiritual progress, acting with love and compassion can help achieve that balance.
I believe that human nature is fundamentally positive and gentle; therefore, a human approach should be non-violent.
If we do nothing to restrain our angry, spiteful, and malicious thoughts and emotions, happiness will elude us.
Even small acts of compassion bring meaning and purpose to our lives.
My number one commitment is to extend awareness that peace of mind depends on our cultivating inner values.
Affection, warm-heartedness, that makes us happy; wealth alone can't do that.
The value of compassion and forgiveness is not confined to matters of religion. These are human values that we shouldn't neglect.
Patience as we wait to take action is a kind of compassionate mind. Impatience on the other hand can be a source of failure.
A calm mind makes us relaxed, improves our health and makes for happier families and communities.
Affection, a sense of community and a sense of concern for others are not some kind of luxury. They're about the survival of humanity.
Cultivating a genuine sense of concern for others' well-being is the basis for the trust that makes happiness and friendship possible.
If you make others happy, you'll be happy. If you make others unhappy, you'll be miserable.
We are social animals and it is in our own interest, if we want to live a happy life, to think of the rest of humanity.
It's not just money we need to lead a happy life; more important is to find inner peace.
Compassion indicates strength, while anger is a sign of weakness and forgiveness is about not giving in to anger or thoughts of revenge.
If we want to improve humanity, we have to start with individuals.
Tackling destructive emotions like anger and hatred entails developing constructive emotions like love and compassion.
Our intelligence needs to be guided by warm-heartedness.
If you're angry and resentful it's like being part of a chain reaction; forgiveness puts a stop to anger, ill-will and a desire for revenge.
It is evident that to help others rather than harming them, treating them with love and compassion leads to lasting trust and friendship.
The idea of one side suffering defeat while the other side triumphs is out of date. Instead we have to develop dialogue.
In order to derive the maximum benefit the wise thing is take care of others.
Developing an attitude more concerned with others reduces fear and fosters friendship.
When we have an altruistic motivation, all our actions become constructive.
We need cooperation based on trust and self-confidence to create an open, compassionate, harmonious society.
There needs to be a systematic approach to introducing inner values, a warm-hearted concern for all human beings, into education.
Compassion is a source of happiness, while self-centerdness can lead ultimately to violence.
Warm-heartedness and concern for others' well-being are a condition for happiness, whether you are religious or not.
Non-violence is when one has the chance to harm another but resists from doing so, this is genuine non-violence.
The quality of our actions, whether they are positive or negative, depends on our motivation. This is why we have to transform our minds.
We need to consider how our actions affect wildlife and the environment, and how they are likely to affect others.
I often tease young people about their concern for how they look; more important is inner beauty - compassion, affection and respect.
Wherever I go I try to hold discussions with members of other religious traditions, because it is important to get to know about them.
The more we are concerned for the well-being of others, the closer we will feel to each other.
If we cherish non-violence and concern for others' well-being it is possible to make this a more peaceful century.
A meaningful life isn't about acquiring money and other facilities; it's about dedicating your life to helping others as much as you can.
As a human being, I believe each one of us should have some concern for others and for the planet.
It is always helpful to remain honest and truthful in the face of difficulty.
In addition to modern education, there is a need to learn how to achieve inner peace.
Pay more attention to compassion and you'll find you're happier. It's that practical and simple.
We need to see that anger is never any use in solving problems, but that patience and compassion are helpful.
If tragedy strikes, don't lose hope. Transform it into an opportunity to make things better.
When you are concerned for the welfare of others, bullying and exploitation cease.
We have to try to solve local problems keeping global interests in mind.
We can teach people how to be happy on the basis of secular ethics, that a compassionate mind is useful, beneficial and secular in nature.
The power of truth never declines. Force and violence may be effective in the short term, but in the long run it's truth that prevails.
Concern for others is not just a matter of religious practice; it's a practical step towards creating a happy society.
Even people opposed to religion need calm minds and compassion to make their work more effective.
We all need basic human values rooted in trust and affection.
Warm-heartedness gives rise to the self-confidence and inner strength that supports a calm mind.
Just as we teach about physical hygiene in the interest of good health, we now need to teach about mental or emotional hygiene too.
It is important to appreciate the contribution compassion and warm-heartedness make to happiness.
Everyone wants to lead a happy life, a meaningful life. In order to fulfil this goal our practice should be realistic.
When you face problems in your lives, don't resort to the use of force, try to employ dialogue to find a solution.
Whether we follow a religious path or not, as human beings we all need affection.
We must design education that provides for both knowledge and a healthy mind, creating a sense of compassion that responds to all humanity.
We have to build a better, more equal world through peace and non-violence.
It would help if there were greater understanding that anger never helps to solve a problem.
Leading your life honestly and truthfully will create trust and friendship.
Now we're so interdependent, we need to build trust and confidence. On a national or personal level self-centredness is a source of trouble.
You can't help someone just by making a wish to do so, you have to take action.
We need a sense of belonging to one humanity, respecting the rights and views of others.
If you dedicate yourself to helping others, you'll be happier.
We can only transform humanity and create a happier more compassionate world through education.
Today, let us wish each other a Happy New Year, but also that we may make it meaningful.
No matter what our motivation may be, if we are not realistic we will not fulfil our goal.
In order to exercise creativity, freedom of thought is essential.
We cannot change the past, but we can reshape the future. Young people have the opportunity to create a happier, better future
All beings want to live in peace and happiness, undisturbed. Therefore the concept of human rights is universal.
Anger and hatred lead to fear; compassion and concern for others allow us to develop self-confidence, which breeds trust and friendship.
It's harmful to employ technology fired by anger and hatred. It can only be beneficial if we're motivated to seek the welfare of all beings.
Sometimes things go wrong; that's normal. But we have a saying in Tibetan, 'Nine times fail, nine times try again'.
Because of the risks involved in indulging in unrestrained desire and greed we need to cultivate contentment and simplicity.
I believe compassion to be one of the few things we can practice that will bring immediate and long-term happiness to our lives.
Not only is your own happiness and welfare related to others, but the more you help them, the happier you will be.
I try to treat whoever I meet as an old friend. This gives me a genuine feeling of happiness.
Since we are increasingly interdependent it's time to develop a sense of global responsibility, to help each other and promote human values.
Great changes start with individuals; the basis of world peace is inner peace in the hearts of individuals, something we can all work for.
If we have a good heart and concern for others, our actions will be positive.
The challenge today is to convince people of the value of truth, honesty, compassion and a concern for others.
Love and compassion are qualities that human beings require just to live together.
We need values based on common sense, experience and scientific findings, what I refer to as secular ethics.
If you want change, create the causes.
Having a compassionate attitude is the ultimate basis for living a happy life.
Prayer can be of great solace to the individual, but changing the world requires us to take action.
If we make a common attempt to improve our education systems, we can educate the coming generations to be more compassionate.
As human beings, we have a common responsibility to build a more peaceful society.
The opponent of peace of mind is not something external, but within us.
Use your human intelligence in the best way you can; transform your emotions in a positive way.
Fear that makes us run from a mad dog is useful and necessary, whereas fear rooted in mistrust is unhelpful and needs to be overcome.
In order to derive the maximum benefit the wise thing is to take care of others.
Forgiveness is how we put a stop to anger, ill-will and a desire for revenge.
If we have peace of mind, we'll always feel happy. Deceiving ourselves that money is the source of happiness, we won't.
I'm optimistic that there is a growing appetite for peace in the world. Many young people are fed up with war and violence.
Warm-heartedness is the key factor that allows me to smile and be happy, even in the company of strangers.
Blessings don't come from outside, but from within. Whatever blessings we receive are the result of our own efforts and positive actions.
Anger destroys our peace of mind and causes trouble. It also hampers our ability to function properly.
Wherever I go I talk to people about the need to be aware of the oneness of humanity.
Compassion is what makes our lives meaningful.
Instead of harboring fear and suspicion we need to think of other people not as 'them' but 'us'.
It is important to let people know that they have the source of contentment and happiness within themselves.
Peace can only be achieved through non-violence. This is something we have to train and educate our children to put into effect.
A person who practices compassion and forgiveness has great inner strength, whereas aggression is usually a sign of weakness.
Among human beings trust comes about, not from expressions of wealth or fame, but from our showing affection.
When you concern yourself with others, you naturally develop a sense of self-confidence. To help others takes courage and inner strength.
Despite the superficial differences between us, we need to have a sense that all 7 billion human beings belong to one human family.
What we do need to do is to find ways to incorporate advice about warm-heartedness into our education system.
When we develop care and concern by thinking of others not as 'them' but 'us', there is no room for bullying, exploitation or deceit.
Genuine peace is based on inner peace, because you cannot build peace on the basis of anger.
We naturally have self-interest but it should be wise rather than foolish self-interest by taking others needs into account as well as ours.
If we make consistent effort, based on proper education, we can change the world.
Everybody wants a happy life and a peaceful mind, but we have to produce peace of mind through our own practice.
Just as ripples spread out when a single pebble is dropped into water, the actions of individuals can have far-reaching effects.
Serving and helping others out of compassion is non-violence in action.
Concern for others' well being reduces fear and suspicion, prompting the openness and transparency that gives rise to trust and friendship.
We live in a world in which we are dependent on others; we cannot expect to fulfil our goals while disregarding others' needs.
When you are warm-hearted, there is no room for anger, jealousy or insecurity.
Past history clearly shows that violence cannot solve problems.
A great Tibetan teacher of mind training once remarked that one of the mind's most marvelous qualities is that it can be transformed.
Genuine happiness comes from focusing on the happiness of others.
Once you have a genuine sense of concern for others, there's no room for cheating, bullying or exploitation.
Peace isn't the mere absence of violence; peace must come from inner peace. And inner peace comes from taking others' interests into account
Warm-heartedness and concern for others are a part of human nature and are at the core of positive human values.
A happy society must be created by people themselves, not through prayer alone, but by taking action.
I like to point out that our nature is basically compassionate because we are social animals. What brings us together is love and affection.
We need to understand that material development by itself it doesn't bring peace of mind. This can only be developed within the mind.
Who is there among us who does not prefer tolerance, respect and forgiveness of our failings to bigotry, disrespect, and resentment?
Through constant training we can enhance our positive attitudes and thoughts and reduce their opposing negative attitudes.
A genuine change must first come from within the individual, only then can he or she attempt to make a significant contribution to humanity.
Today's children are hugely important, our hopes for the future lie in their hands and rest on their shoulders.
I am increasingly convinced that the time has come to find a way of thinking about spirituality and ethics beyond religion altogether.
The many factors which divide us are actually much more superficial than those we share.
Genuine friendship depends on genuine affection and taking a sense of responsibility for each other.
Human values like democracy, freedom of speech and freedom of the individual, these are changes whose momentum cannot be stopped.
The quality of everything we do: our physical actions, our verbal actions, and even our mental actions, depends on our motivation.
Unlike the body, when it comes to training the mind, there is no limit to how far we can go.
Patience guards us against losing our presence of mind so we can remain undisturbed, even when the situation is really difficult.
If you become more concerned for the welfare of others, you will experience a sense of calm, inner strength and self-confidence.
If we are optimistic, take a longer view, and we employ realistic methods, we can contribute to making the world a better place.
Unbiased love is undoubtedly difficult to generate, but if you practice
with determination, day by day your attitude will be transformed.
Compassion is a mental quality that can bring us true lasting inner peace and inner strength.
We often talk about moral values, justice and trust, but the important thing is to put them into effect in our everyday lives.
Wealth may contribute to our happiness, but it's not the most important factor; by itself wealth fails to bring us deep inner satisfaction.
The more adept we are in cultivating altruism, the happier we will be and the better the atmosphere we will create around us.
Compassion is a marvel of human nature, a precious inner resource, and the foundation of our well-being and the harmony of our societies.
We have to put effort into being honest, truthful and compassionate towards others.
The essence of compassion is a desire to alleviate the suffering of others and to promote their well-being.
While revenge weakens society, forgiveness gives it strength.
A calm mind is really helpful in sustaining a healthy body.
To bring about a better world, let us all strive together with vision, with courage, and with optimism.
The creation of a more peaceful and happier society has to begin from the level of the individual.
It is my hope that the twenty-first century will be a century when a more caring, responsible, and compassionate humanity will emerge.
The real source of happiness involves one's state of mind, outlook, and motivation, and one's level of warmheartedness towards others.
Compassion, along with love, is the face of altruism.
We must work together. Humanity needs more genuine cooperation.
We tend to forget that despite the superficial differences between us, people are equal in their basic wish for peace and happiness.
It is necessary to help others in our daily lives, merely praying for them isn't enough.
Compassion is the wish to offer unbiased service to all beings, whether they are friendly or hostile to you.
As compassion grows stronger, so does your commitment to the welfare of all beings, even if you have to act alone.
Affection, honesty, harmony and non-violence are qualities that yield happiness for individuals, families and society at large.
Once your mind is calm and full of love, there is no room for hatred or fear. Others will trust you because of your open heart. 
We won't bring about peace in the world merely by praying for it; we have to take steps to tackle the violence and corruption that disrupt peace. We can't expect change if we don't take action.
The first drawback of anger is that it destroys our inner peace; the second is that it distorts our view of reality. If we think about this and come to understand that anger is really unhelpful, that it is only destructive, we can begin to distance ourselves from anger.
The creation of a more peaceful and happier society has to begin from the level of the individual, and from there it can expand to one's family, to one's neighborhood, to one's community and so on.
In the present circumstances, no one can afford to assume that someone else will solve their problems. Each one of us has a responsibility to help guide our global family in the right direction. Good wishes are not sufficient; we must become actively engaged.
A sense of contentment is crucial to being happy. Physical health, material wealth and friends contribute to this, but contentment governs our relations with them all.
In our modern society everything seems geared to material development, even our systems of education. As a result we no longer pay sufficient attention to our inner values, which leads to mental unrest. In order to address this imbalance we need to pay more attention to our minds
If we were really to see one another as brothers and sisters, there would be no basis for division, cheating and exploitation among us. Therefore it's important to promote the idea of the oneness of humanity, that in being human we are all the same.
The first of my personal commitments is to work to increase human happiness by encouraging the cultivation of inner values and a sense of concern for others' well being. These are the key factors whether one is a religious person or not.
Since we desire the true happiness that is brought about by a calm mind, and such peace of mind arises only from having a compassionate attitude, we need to make a concerted effort to develop compassion.
As a human being I'm aware that we are all physically, mentally and emotionally the same and we all want to live a happy life. Scientists say our basic nature is compassionate. It's clear that love and affection bring people together.
Irrespective of whether we have faith in religion or not, it's good to be more compassionate. It makes us happier as individuals with a positive influence on our families and the neighborhood where we live.
I am one of the 7 billion human beings alive today. We each have a responsibility to think about humanity and the good of the world because it affects our own future. We weren't born on this planet at this time to create problems but to bring about some benefit.
We can achieve peace of mind if we tackle our destructive emotions, so the goal of making the 21st century an era of peace and compassion is feasible. It will involve finding solutions to problems in dialogue, not the use of force.
We may say prayers when we are trying to solve the problems we face, but it is up to us to put an end to violence and bring about peace. Creating peace is our responsibility. To pray for peace while still engaging in the causes that give rise to violence is contradictory.
Human beings are social animals and it is love that brings us together, while anger drives us apart. To live more peacefully and joyfully in our day to day lives, we need a warm heart.
Making others happy is not a question of sacrificing our own happiness. Trying to make others happy, even when we do not always succeed, is a source of great satisfaction. Anger and hatred are signs of weakness, while compassion is a sure sign of strength.
Many of the problems we face today are our own creation. Creating a more peaceful world requires a peaceful mind and a peaceful heart. As human brothers and sisters we must live together in tolerance and affection.
As human beings we need to assess whether anger has any value - it destroys our peace of mind. Compassion, on the other hand, brings optimism and hope.
The kind of behavior that really is spiritual practice consists of refraining from falsehood and abiding by the truth, neither humiliating nor mocking others, being humble, and having a good heart and helping others.
When our intentions toward others are good, we find that any feelings of anxiety or insecurity we may have are greatly reduced. We experience a liberation from our habitual preoccupation with self and paradoxically, this gives rise to strong feelings of confidence.
Inner transformation is not a matter of faith or prayer. It involves reason and the use of human intelligence. A calm and healthy mind has a very positive effect on our physical health and well-being.
Ethics are not a collection of commandments and prohibitions to abide by, but a natural inner offering that can bring happiness and satisfaction to ourselves and others.
Virtually all of us have benefited from our mother's affection at the start of our lives. When someone is on their deathbed, if he or she is surrounded by loved ones they can pass away peacefully. From birth to death we all need affection.
While many people consider sensory experience as the main source of happiness, really it is peace of mind. What destroys peace of mind is anger, hatred, anxiety and fear. Kindness counters this, and through appropriate education we can learn to tackle such emotions.
Cultivating a close, warm-hearted feeling for others automatically puts the mind at ease. It helps remove whatever fears or insecurities we may have and gives us the strength to cope with any obstacles we encounter. It is the ultimate source of success in life.
I am one of the 7 billion human beings alive today. We each have a responsibility to think about humanity and the good of the world because it affects our own future. We weren't born on this planet at this time to create problems but to bring about some benefit.
If you develop a pure and sincere motivation, if you are motivated by a wish to help on the basis of kindness, compassion, and respect, then you can carry on any kind of work, in any field, and function more effectively.
Prayer by itself is not sufficient to bring about peace of mind. What is much more effective is coming to understand the workings of the mind and learning how to tackle the mental afflictions that disturb it.
I always consider that the shape of the future is in our hands. The past is past and can't be changed, but the future has not yet arrived. Young people have the opportunity and responsibility to shape it by creating a better world.
We may say prayers when we are trying to solve the problems we face, but it is up to us to put an end to violence and bring about peace. Creating peace is our responsibility. To pray for peace while still engaging in the causes that give rise to violence is contradictory.
In today's interconnected and globalized world, it's now commonplace for people of different world views, faiths and races to live side by side. It's a matter of great urgency, therefore, that we find ways to cooperate with one another in a spirit of mutual acceptance and respect
The world belongs to its 7 billion inhabitants. In the past, communities could flourish in isolation, but now we can't. This World Environment Day let's remember that we depend on each other and that to meet the challenge of climate change, we have to work together.
Some people consider the practice of love and compassion is only related to religious practice and if they are not interested in religion they neglect these inner values. But love and compassion are qualities that human beings require just to live together.
Because of our intelligence we human beings are uniquely capable not only of creating problems, but of doing so on a large scale. Therefore, it is important that we use our intelligence in constructive ways. That's what warm-heartedness and concern for others lead us to do.
Everyone wants to lead a peaceful, happy life, but happiness and success aren't measured by how much money you have, but by whether you have inner peace in your heart.
I'm Tibetan, I'm Buddhist and I'm the Dalai Lama, but if I emphasize these differences it sets me apart and raises barriers with other people. What we need to do is to pay more attention to the ways in which we are the same as other people.
People inflict pain on others in their selfish pursuit of happiness and satisfaction. Yet true happiness comes from a sense of brotherhood and sisterhood. We need to cultivate a sense of universal responsibility for one another and the planet we share.
Compassion is of little value if it just remains an idea. It must motivate how we respond to others and be reflected in all our thoughts and actions.
We are, you might say, "brainwashed" into thinking that money is the source of happiness while what we really need to know is that inner peace is something that comes from within.
I often ask myself what is the purpose of our lives and I conclude that life's purpose is to be happy. We have no guarantee what will happen in the future, but we live in hope. That's what keeps us going.
Scientists warn that constant fear and anger are bad for our health, while being compassionate and warm-hearted contributes to our physical and mental well-being. Therefore, just as we observe physical hygiene to stay well, we need to cultivate a kind of emotional hygiene too.
There is a link between our physical and verbal actions and emotions. If, instead of anger, hatred and suspicion, we are moved by loving-kindness, we will naturally have greater respect for others and our actions will be non-violent.
There are always problems to face, but it makes a difference if our minds are calm. On the surface we may get upset, but it makes a difference if we are able to stay calm in the depths of our minds.
Humanity's thirst for natural resources can only be sustained if we adapt our patterns of consumption. Competition for necessities like water, food and land will inevitably intensify. To meet the challenge of climate change and environmental depletion we must all cooperate.
Not only is it the case that happy people are more willing to help others, but as I generally point out, helping others is the best way to help yourself, the best way to promote your own happiness. It is you, yourself, who will receive the benefit.
Compassion reduces our fear, boosts our confidence, and opens us to inner strength. By reducing distrust, it opens us to others and brings us a sense of connections with them and a sense of purpose and meaning in life.
I feel that it's crucial to have a clear recognition of the value of your objective. That's the important thing. Recognizing that your objective is worthy, because it involves others' welfare or the general well-being of the community, gives you the determination to pursue it.
In the modern world, where the pursuit of money is considered more important than the cultivation of inner values a fresh approach is required to incorporate secular ethics or universal values into the system of education.
Our real enemies and the enemies of humanity are negative emotions like anger and hatred. Indeed, people who are dominated by powerful negative emotions should be objects of our compassion.
Change in the world comes from individuals, from the inner peace in individual hearts. Just as ripples spread out when a single pebble is dropped into water, the actions of individuals can have far-reaching effects.
In our day to day life warm-heartedness is the key factor for happiness.
World peace can only be based on inner peace. If we ask what destroys our inner peace, it's not weapons and external threats, but our own inner flaws like anger. This is one of the reasons why love and compassion are important, because they strengthen us. This is a source of hope
The many factors which divide us are actually much more superficial than those we share. Despite all of the things that differentiate us - race, language, religion, gender, wealth and so on - we are all equal concerning our fundamental humanity.
When each of us learns to appreciate the critical importance of ethics and makes inner values like compassion and patience an integral part of our basic outlook on life, the effects will be far-reaching.
In today's materialistic world there is a risk of people becoming slaves to money, as though they were simply cogs in a huge money-making machine. This does nothing for human dignity, freedom, and genuine well-being. Wealth should serve humanity, and not the other way around.
Peace has a great deal to do with warm-heartedness and respect for the lives of others, avoiding doing them harm and regarding their lives as being as precious as our own. If, on that basis, we can also be of help to others, so much the better.
Insofar as the destructive effects of anger and hateful thoughts are concerned, one cannot get protection from wealth nor education. The only factor that can give protection from the destructive effects of anger and hatred is the practice of tolerance and patience.
Because of the great differences in our ways of thinking, it is inevitable that we have different religions and faiths. Each has its own beauty. And it is much better that we live together on the basis of mutual respect and mutual admiration.
Practicing compassion, caring for others and sharing their problems, lays the foundation for a meaningful life, not only at the level of the individual, family or community, but also for humanity as a whole.
The very purpose of spirituality is self-discipline. Rather than criticizing others, we should evaluate and criticize ourselves. Ask yourself, what am I doing about my anger, my attachment, my pride, my jealousy? These are the things we should check in our day to day lives.
Genuine friends, are attracted by a warm heart, not money, not power. A genuine friend considers you as just another human being, as a brother or sister, and shows affection on that level, regardless of whether you are rich or poor, or in a high position; that is a genuine friend
Compassion suits our physical condition, whereas anger, fear and distrust are harmful to our well-being. Therefore, just as we learn the importance of physical hygiene to physical health, to ensure healthy minds, we need to learn some kind of emotional hygiene.
Although I am a Buddhist monk, I am skeptical that prayers alone will achieve world peace. We need instead to be enthusiastic and self-confident in taking action.
I believe the ultimate source of blessings is within us. A good motivation and honesty bring self-confidence, which attracts the trust and respect of others. Therefore the real source of blessings is in our own mind.
The basic foundation of humanity is compassion and love. This is why, if even a few individuals simply try to create mental peace and happiness within themselves and act responsibly and kind-heartedly towards others, they will have a positive influence in their community.
Many people think that patience is a sign of weakness. I think this is a mistake. It is anger that is a sign of weakness, whereas patience is a sign of strength.
Developing inner values is much like physical exercise. The more we train our abilities, the stronger they become. The difference is that, unlike the body, when it comes to training the mind, there is no limit to how far we can go.
What's past is past, nothing can change that. But the future can be different if we choose to make it so. We have to cultivate a vision of a happier, more peaceful future and make the effort now to bring it about. This is no time for complacency, hope lies in the action we take.
Destructive thoughts and emotions undermine the very causes of peace and happiness. If you think clearly about it, it makes no sense to think you're seeking happiness, if you do nothing to restrain angry, spiteful, and malicious thoughts and emotions.
Modern education pays little attention to inner values and yet our basic human nature is compassionate. We need to incorporate compassion and warm-heartedness into the modern education system to make it more holistic.
I really feel that some people neglect and overlook compassion because they associate it with religion. Of course, everyone is free to choose whether they pay religion any regard, but to neglect compassion is a mistake because it is the source of our own well-being.
Whether science or religion is constructive or destructive depends on our motivation and whether we are guided by a real concern for the well-being of others and an appreciation of the oneness of humanity.
I am convinced we can become happier individuals, happier communities and a happier humanity by cultivating a warm heart, allowing our better selves to prevail.
Karma means action and action motivated by compassion is good. To complain that what happens to you is just the result of your karma is lazy. Instead, confidently recalling the advice that, "You are your own master," you can change what happens by taking action.
Within each of us exists the potential to contribute positively to society. Although one individual among so many on this planet may seem too insignificant, it is our personal efforts that will determine the direction our society is heading.
We need to strengthen such inner values as contentment, patience and tolerance, as well as compassion for others. Keeping in mind that it is expressions of affection rather than money and power that attract real friends, compassion is the key to ensuring our own well-being.
I consider non-violence to be compassion in action. It doesn't mean weakness, cowering in fear, or simply doing nothing. It is to act without violence, motivated by compassion, recognizing the rights of others.
Meditation is about keeping the mind clear; thinking deeply about reality. It's about thinking about our emotions, asking ourselves 'Why do I feel angry?' and coming to understand the advantages and sound basis of positive emotions like warm-heartedness.
Peace in the world depends on peace within. If we have that we can approach problems in a spirit of compassion, dialogue and respect for the rights of others, always a better solution than resorting to a use of weapons and force. External disarmament depends on inner disarmament.
Peace is not brought about through conflict, but through compassion, creating peace of mind within ourselves. We all need compassion and women can take a lead role in encouraging others to let it flower within them. My own first teacher of kindness and compassion was my mother.
Some people mistakenly conclude that cultivating compassion is all about others' benefit, whereas the first benefit is to us. Compassion brings us peace of mind. It attracts friends. Friends are based on trust and trust develops when we show concern for others.
What is important is not so much how long you live as whether you live a meaningful life. This doesn't mean accumulating money and fame, but being of service to your fellow human beings. It means helping others if you can, but even if you can't do that, at least not harming them.
We can change our minds. We don't have to give in to anger and hatred. Since compassion and anger cannot co-exist, the more we cultivate compassion the more our anger will be reduced.
I don't like formality. There's no formality when we're born and none when we die. In between we should treat each other as brothers and sisters because we all want to live a happy life. This is our common purpose and our right.
Anger and aggression sometimes seem to be protective because they bring energy to bear on a particular situation, but that energy is blind. It takes a calm mind to be able to consider things from different angles and points of view.
The use of force may control people physically, but it won't change their hearts and minds. You can only do that on the basis of trust and friendship.
Change in the world always begins with an individual who shares what he or she has learned and passes it on to others.
The most crucial use of knowledge and education is to understand the importance of developing a good heart.
We all want to live a happy life, which is our right, and the key to doing so is developing compassion for others.
We need to improve the current education system by introducing instructions on ways to cultivate positive emotions like warm-heartedness.
Compassion brings inner peace and whatever else is going on, that peace of mind allows us to see the whole picture more clearly.
Compassion is the essence of a spiritual life, to be successful in practicing love and compassion, patience and tolerance are indispensable.
I'm convinced that today's young people can achieve a more peaceful world if they cultivate warm-heartedness and inner peace.
The more compassionate our mind, the more we'll be able to lead our lives transparently, honestly, truthfully, with nothing to hide.
People go to great lengths to look physically attractive, but inner beauty is a more important and stronger basis for lasting relationships.
As social animals we need friends and what attracts them is trust. And trust grows when we show real concern for others' well-being.
Peace doesn't come from prayer alone, it requires us to take action. Our goal should be a demilitarized world. #PeaceDayChallenge
Whatever our religious faith, showing others loving kindness is the best way to bring about inner peace.
What we need today are universal values based not on faith but on scientific findings, common experience and common sense.
I'm just one human being, but I believe each one of us has a responsibility to contribute to a happier humanity.
Religious people pray for peace, but prayer alone is not enough, what will bring peace in the world is people cultivating peace of mind.
As a human brother I'm committed to letting people know that we all possess the seeds of love and compassion.
Using harsh words reflects narrow-mindedness, to be happy and joyful we need friends. Friendship is based on trust and treating others kindly
Just as we protect our health by observing physical hygiene, by tackling our destructive emotions with skill we'll achieve emotional hygiene
You may control people physically by force, but you won't change their hearts and minds, that requires trust and friendship.
By learning to be more warm-hearted we can create a more compassionate world.
When I heard scientists say they had evidence that basic human nature is compassionate, I thought, 'There's real hope.'
Inner beauty, warm-heartedness and compassion, is what brings about peace of mind.
Fear and suspicion won't help us live together. We have to cultivate warm-heartedness.
If we were really to see one another as brothers and sisters, there would be no basis for division, cheating and exploitation among us.
We all want to live a happy life, so we have to learn to live together in trust and mutual respect.
If you have a warm heart and you care for others you'll be happy and the community in which you live will be happier too.
Education today needs not only to develop our intelligence, but also to support basic human values of warm-heartedness and compassion.
There is no fortitude like patience, just as there is no destructive emotion worse than hatred. Therefore, practice patience and tolerance.
Since loving kindness is the basis of a happy life, It's my number one commitment to promote awareness of the importance of warm-heartedness
We experience happiness on a sensory level that is relatively short-lived. But lasting happiness is related to our state of mind.
Compassion brings us peace of mind. It brings a smile to our face and genuine smiles bring us closer together.
On a mental level kindness and compassion give rise to lasting joy. They reduce fear.
A more peaceful world and a more peaceful century require that we rely not on weapons but on developing a widespread inner peace.
We are all social animals and compassion, care and concern for others bring us together.
Having a calm and compassionate mind enables us to use our natural intelligence more effectively.
Protecting our environment is not a luxury we can choose to enjoy, but a simple matter of survival.
Peace in the world depends on our relating to each other with compassion.
Although bringing about inner change is difficult, it is absolutely worthwhile to try. What is important is to try our best.
Motivation is very important. We can show love, respect for others, and honesty in whatever we do to help humanity.
If human society loses the value of justice, compassion, and honesty, the next generation will face greater difficulties and more suffering.
The happiness of childhood, the calming of a child's fears and the healthy development of its self-confidence depend directly upon love.
Money and power attract friends. But it's not you they're friends with , just your money and power. Only affection brings genuine friends.
If in day to day life you lead a good life, honestly, with love, compassion, and less selfishness, then automatically you will find peace.
The future can be different if we choose to make it so. There is no time for complacency, hope lies in what action we take.
Anger may seem to be a source of energy, but it's blind. It causes us to lose our restraint. It may stir courage, but that too is blind.
It is in the nature of the mind that the more we cultivate and familiarize ourselves with positive emotions, the more powerful they become.
This Earth Day we need a greater sense of global responsibility based on our belonging to one human family.
While material development contributes to physical comfort, mental comfort depends on compassion, which expresses itself as nonviolence.
It is not enough simply to wish that love and compassion grow within us. We need a sustained effort to cultivate such positive qualities.
The aim of spiritual practice is to transform and perfect our motivation and mental disposition, so we can become better human beings.
Positive emotions like compassion and loving kindness engender in us a deep sense of peace and serenity, and benefits others as well.
We can make this a more peaceful century if we cherish non-violence and concern for others' well-being.
Some scientists have found evidence to show that basic human nature is compassionate. This is a really hopeful sign.
All religions have the potential to create better human beings, but no one religion can claim supremacy over the other.
To really be of help to others we need to be guided by compassion.
Caring for others is the best way to fulfil our own interests. We are social animals; we need to be warm-hearted and to take care of others.
Love and compassion are important, because they strengthen us. This is a source of hope
We have to cultivate a vision of a happier, more peaceful future and make the effort now to bring it about.
The purpose of education is to build a happier society, we need a more holistic approach that promotes the practice of love and compassion.
It's not what work we choose to do, the crucial point is doing it with a positive and altruistic motivation.
Be a kind and compassionate person. This is the inner beauty that is a key factor to making a better world.
Inner peace helps sustain good health, gives rise to happy individuals, happy families, happy communities and ultimately a happy humanity.
Be honest, truthful and warm-hearted. Make compassion the basis of your determination.
If our goal is a happier, more peaceful world in the future, only education will bring change.
The ultimate source of happiness for self and others is compassion, concern for others and being of service to them.
We know that everyone who is born has to die, but the important thing is that while we are alive we should make our lives meaningful.
If there can be a greater sense of oneness in the world, then violence and killing will end.
When we talk about happiness, we must think in terms of peace of mind, which is a real source of joy.
When you have a more compassionate mind and cultivate warmheartedness, the whole atmosphere around you becomes more positive and friendlier.
On this International Day of Peace, we must remember that peace cannot come from prayer alone. It requires action. #PeaceDayChallenge
The quality of every human activity ultimately depends on our motivation.
Change starts with us as individuals. If one individual becomes more compassionate it will influence others and so we will change the world.
Genuine compassion, unbiased and not mixed with attachment, is a source of genuine human happiness.
Meaningful dialogue requires us to respect others' rights and interests, compromise is the only way to resolve disputes.
Friendship depends on trust, not money, not power, not education. Only if there's trust will there be friendship.
Different religious traditions can live together on the basis of mutual admiration, mutual respect, and learning from each other.
We are all human beings possessing a seed of compassion. We have to use our intelligence to cultivate the inner values associated with it.
Whether we believe in religion or not, affection and compassion are key factors for our peace of mind.
We think that if we have health and wealth they're enough to be happy, but actually happiness depends on the state of our minds.
Problems created by human beings have to be solved by human beings. Basic human nature is compassionate and this is our source of hope.
If you show concern for others and respect for their rights you will establish trust; and trust is the basis of friendship.
We may sometimes feel that we can't do much as individuals, but humanity is made up of individuals; we can make a difference.
We are now so interdependent that it is in our own interest to take the whole of humanity into account.
We need to pay more attention to the inner values that are the key to our happiness.
Genuine peace in the world depends on our having peace in our hearts. If we are full of anger how can we expect to bring about peace.
There are always problems to face, but it makes a difference if our minds are calm.
Friendship depends on trust and trust grows when we live our lives honestly and sincerely, cultivating respect and concern for others.
If we start now and make the effort, we can make the world a more peaceful place. We have to try.
Being concerned about others does not mean you forgo fulfilling your own needs, but that if you do help others there is mutual benefit.
Problems created by human beings have to be solved by human beings. Basic human nature is compassionate and this is our source of hope.
Inner peace depends on warm-heartedness and a concern for others' well being.
Building trust depends on concern for others and defending their rights, not doing them harm.
If we remember the oneness of humanity and think of each other as brothers and sisters we can overcome that potential for violence.
This planet is our only home; we are all responsible for taking care of it. I'm happy to see leaders now taking climate change seriously.
The time has come for us to consider seriously how to change our way of life not through prayer or religious teaching, but through education
Because society is the basis of our own happiness, it makes sense for us to take care of others.
Creating a better world will require will-power, vision and determination. And for that we need a strong sense that humanity is one family.
The distinction between violence and non-violence lies less in the nature of the action and more in the motivation with which it is done.
Physical comfort alone does not bring inner peace. We create inner peace within the mind.
We need friendship, which depends on trust. And that depends on concern for others, defending their rights, and not doing them harm.
Whether technology's effect is good or bad depends on the user. It's important that we shouldn't be slaves to technology; it should help us.
Cultivating warm-heartedness and compassion is something we can all do.
Just as cold is dispelled by heat, its opposite, anger and loving-kindness counter one another.
Open hearts encourage a sense of security and trust that is the basis of genuine friendship, which is to everyone's benefit.
We will only create a more peaceful and harmonious world if we adopt a peaceful approach and engage openly in dialogue.
Love and affection are important if we are to live a happy life.
What is important today is that we consciously cultivate a sense of the oneness of humanity, because we all depend on each other.
Friendship doesn't depend on fame, money or physical strength. It's based on trust and trust depends on love and affection.
If you live your life honestly and truthfully, you'll be open and transparent, which leads to trust. And trust leads to friendship.
We have to make a special effort to think of each other as fellow human beings, as our brothers and sisters.
We have a marvelous brain, but have to use it properly. It's scientific to be skeptical, to research and experiment. An approach I admire.
When you help others, do so out of respect. Don't look down on them. Serve other human beings with a compassionate intent.
Climate change affects everyone, all nations, not just one or two. Consider it a global issue; national interests will automatically be met.
This planet is our home and Tibet its roof.  
When faced with problems, don't lose hope. Keep up your self-confidence and don't be too impatient to achieve quick results.
We need to promote the oneness of all human beings, on the basis of which there are no grounds for killing or exploiting others.
It is possible to use our intelligence and extend our compassion to others, including even our enemies.
Tibet's ecology needs protecting, not just for Tibetans, but for the health and sustainability of the entire world
Fundamentally, all spiritual traditions help us train our minds, overcome our negativities and fulfill our inner potential.
The future is in your hands, but for it to be peaceful and happy requires a sense of compassion and concern for others' well-being.
Many think that happiness is to be found outside ourselves in material things, but actually happiness is something that comes from within.
Changing the world is up to us. If each of us tries, the next generation may see a happier, more peaceful world emerge.
Let's remember that world peace results from individuals like us finding lasting peace within #PeaceDayChallenge
To serve others and not only to secure their welfare, but also to avoid harming them, is the standard of a meaningful life.
As human beings, equipped with marvelous intelligence and the potential for developing a warm heart, each of us can become a force for good
It's unrealistic to think that the future of humanity can be achieved through prayer or good wishes alone; what we need is to take action.
The goal of happier human beings living together, supporting each other, in a more peaceful world, is, I believe, something we can achieve.
Loving is of even greater importance than being loved.
The use of force and violence inevitably entails unanticipated consequences, but rarely yields a solution.
Compassion reduces our fear, boosts our confidence, and opens us to inner strength.
The moment you think of others, your mind widens.
Japan, the one country to have suffered nuclear attack, has taken the lead in opposing nuclear weapons. I strongly urge you to keep it up.
To create a happier humanity we have to pay more attention to our inner values, whether we are religious or not.
The real troublemaker is within us. Our true enemies are our own destructive tendencies.
To cultivate genuine compassion we need to take responsibility for our own care and have concern for everyone's suffering, including our own
If we're motivated by a genuine sense of universal responsibility our relations with the environment and our neighbors will be more balanced
What makes our human life precious is our marvelous brain. We have an ability to cultivate compassion in a way no other beings can do.
The greatest threat we face today is violence.
The gun may seem more decisive in the short term, but in the long term the power of truth is stronger.
When we wake up we can remind ourselves - "I need to be happy, I need to have warm feelings towards others."
We all want to be happy and avoid suffering, and we all have a right to be happy. That's why I say we are all the same.
To create a happier humanity we have to pay more attention to our inner values, whether we are religious or not.
A truthful, compassionate attitude is a sign of strength. It's lying and anger that betray weakness.
Since climate change and the global economy now affect us all, we have to develop a sense of the oneness of humanity.
We all have the potential to develop unbiased love and concern for other human beings.
To reduce destructive emotions we need to strengthen constructive emotions. For example, to counter anger we cultivate love and compassion.
It's important is to show children affection to give them a sense of security and the ability to be affectionate for the rest of their lives
Ask yourselves now and then, "How can I contribute to human beings being happier and more at peace?"
As human beings we are all responsible for each other; we all have the potential to be kind and affectionate.
When our mind is calm, we're better able to find peace of mind and live a joyful life.
Since we are not solely material creatures, it is a mistake to base all our hopes for happiness on external development alone.
Common sense tells us we'll be happy even if we're poor if we're warm-hearted, whereas if we're wealthy but self-centred we'll be miserable
Kindness and compassion give rise to self-confidence, which in turn empowers us to be honest, truthful and transparent.
Giving in to anger, fear and suspicion disturbs our minds and our physical well-being, whereas trust and friendship are the basis of society
Because all religious traditions teach love, tolerance and forgiveness, and share a common goal, we can appreciate and respect them all.
Deep down we must have a real affection for each other, a clear recognition of our shared status as human beings.
Doing to harm to others may bring some temporary satisfaction, but being helpful to them is the only real source of lasting joy.
Our potential for positive and negative emotions is the same, but intelligence is our special quality. Use it well; be successful and happy.
The future is in the hands of those who belong to the 21st century with the opportunity to build a better humanity by training the mind.
Friends are made on the basis of trust and trust only grows if you are kind to people.
It is important to teach young people at school that violence is a fruitless approach to solving problems.
It's clear that the ultimate source of happiness is warm-heartedness.
Anger cannot coexist with inner peace, which is the principal characteristic of happiness.
When our mind is calm, we're better able to find peace of mind and live a joyful life.
If we have respect and concern for other beings, we'll be able to create an atmosphere of happiness, harmony and real brotherhood
One of our best human qualities is intelligence; it enables us to judge what is beneficial and what brings harm.
In our daily lives, mindfulness, a more holistic and compassionate attitude helps us keep our peace of mind; it's good for our health too.
Compassion is not just the business of the religious; it is important to know it's everyone's business, it is a question of human survival.
We need to strike a balance between material and spiritual progress, a balance achieved on the basis of love and compassion.
Only tolerance and patience can protect us from the destructive effects of anger and hatred.
Everyone can practise non-violence, it only calls for determination. If you succeed, it will open the way to a far more peaceful world.
Affection and compassion are indispensable in daily life.
Idealistic as it may sound, altruism should be the driving force in business, not just competition and a desire for wealth.
True compassion isn't just an emotional response, it's a firm commitment founded on reason, which doesn't change if others behave badly.
Determination, courage, self-confidence lead to success, but we should always remain humble, modest and unpretentious.
Showing respect for others' rights and views is not only the source of reconciliation it's also an aspect of compassion.
Tolerance is always important, it helps us overcome difficulties. Without it, small things irritate us and we overreact.
Material development only gives us sensory pleasure, but to be lastingly happy we need to develop our minds. We need calm minds.
Being aware of a single shortcoming within yourself is far more useful than being aware of a thousand in someone else.
The purpose of religion is not building grand temples but cultivating positive human qualities like tolerance, generosity and love.
We can develop patience and change our attitudes through steady practice - the human mind has such potential.
Concern yourselves more with the needs of others, with the needs of all humanity, and you'll have peace of mind.
Compassion suits our physical condition, whereas anger, fear and distrust are harmful to our well-being.
True friendship develops not as a result of money or power but on the basis of genuine human affection.
If we were to think of other people as our human brothers and sisters, there'd be no room for quarrelling or killing each other.
You can't buy inner peace or wisdom with money. You have to create them within yourself.
Without technology humanity has no future, but we have to be careful that we don't become so mechanised that we lose our human feelings.
To meet this century's challenges, human beings need a greater sense of universal responsibility.
Compassion should be unbiased, based on a recognition that others have a right to happiness, just as you do.
Love and kindness are the very basis of society. If we lose these positive emotions, society will face tremendous difficulties.
Human rights apply to every country because all human beings share an inherent yearning for freedom, dignity and equality.
If you develop care and concern for others, you'll develop a kind of inner strength in spite of your own difficulties and problems.
We need to balance material and spiritual progress, acting with love and compassion can help achieve that balance.
I believe that human nature is fundamentally positive and gentle; therefore, a human approach should be non-violent.
If we do nothing to restrain our angry, spiteful, and malicious thoughts and emotions, happiness will elude us.
Even small acts of compassion bring meaning and purpose to our lives.
My number one commitment is to extend awareness that peace of mind depends on our cultivating inner values.
Affection, warm-heartedness, that makes us happy; wealth alone can't do that.
The value of compassion and forgiveness is not confined to matters of religion. These are human values that we shouldn't neglect.
Patience as we wait to take action is a kind of compassionate mind. Impatience on the other hand can be a source of failure.
A calm mind makes us relaxed, improves our health and makes for happier families and communities.
Affection, a sense of community and a sense of concern for others are not some kind of luxury. They're about the survival of humanity.
Cultivating a genuine sense of concern for others' well-being is the basis for the trust that makes happiness and friendship possible.
If you make others happy, you'll be happy. If you make others unhappy, you'll be miserable.
We are social animals and it is in our own interest, if we want to live a happy life, to think of the rest of humanity.
It's not just money we need to lead a happy life; more important is to find inner peace.
Compassion indicates strength, while anger is a sign of weakness and forgiveness is about not giving in to anger or thoughts of revenge.
If we want to improve humanity, we have to start with individuals.
Tackling destructive emotions like anger and hatred entails developing constructive emotions like love and compassion.
Our intelligence needs to be guided by warm-heartedness.
If you're angry and resentful it's like being part of a chain reaction; forgiveness puts a stop to anger, ill-will and a desire for revenge.
It is evident that to help others rather than harming them, treating them with love and compassion leads to lasting trust and friendship.
The idea of one side suffering defeat while the other side triumphs is out of date. Instead we have to develop dialogue.
In order to derive the maximum benefit the wise thing is take care of others.
Developing an attitude more concerned with others reduces fear and fosters friendship.
When we have an altruistic motivation, all our actions become constructive.
We need cooperation based on trust and self-confidence to create an open, compassionate, harmonious society.
There needs to be a systematic approach to introducing inner values, a warm-hearted concern for all human beings, into education.
Compassion is a source of happiness, while self-centerdness can lead ultimately to violence.
Warm-heartedness and concern for others' well-being are a condition for happiness, whether you are religious or not.
Non-violence is when one has the chance to harm another but resists from doing so, this is genuine non-violence.
The quality of our actions, whether they are positive or negative, depends on our motivation. This is why we have to transform our minds.
We need to consider how our actions affect wildlife and the environment, and how they are likely to affect others.
I often tease young people about their concern for how they look; more important is inner beauty - compassion, affection and respect.
Wherever I go I try to hold discussions with members of other religious traditions, because it is important to get to know about them.
The more we are concerned for the well-being of others, the closer we will feel to each other.
If we cherish non-violence and concern for others' well-being it is possible to make this a more peaceful century.
A meaningful life isn't about acquiring money and other facilities; it's about dedicating your life to helping others as much as you can.
As a human being, I believe each one of us should have some concern for others and for the planet.
It is always helpful to remain honest and truthful in the face of difficulty.
In addition to modern education, there is a need to learn how to achieve inner peace.
Pay more attention to compassion and you'll find you're happier. It's that practical and simple.
We need to see that anger is never any use in solving problems, but that patience and compassion are helpful.
If tragedy strikes, don't lose hope. Transform it into an opportunity to make things better.
When you are concerned for the welfare of others, bullying and exploitation cease.
We have to try to solve local problems keeping global interests in mind.
We can teach people how to be happy on the basis of secular ethics, that a compassionate mind is useful, beneficial and secular in nature.
The power of truth never declines. Force and violence may be effective in the short term, but in the long run it's truth that prevails.
Concern for others is not just a matter of religious practice; it's a practical step towards creating a happy society.
Even people opposed to religion need calm minds and compassion to make their work more effective.
We all need basic human values rooted in trust and affection.
Warm-heartedness gives rise to the self-confidence and inner strength that supports a calm mind.
Just as we teach about physical hygiene in the interest of good health, we now need to teach about mental or emotional hygiene too.
It is important to appreciate the contribution compassion and warm-heartedness make to happiness.
Everyone wants to lead a happy life, a meaningful life. In order to fulfil this goal our practice should be realistic.
When you face problems in your lives, don't resort to the use of force, try to employ dialogue to find a solution.
Whether we follow a religious path or not, as human beings we all need affection.
We must design education that provides for both knowledge and a healthy mind, creating a sense of compassion that responds to all humanity.
We have to build a better, more equal world through peace and non-violence.
It would help if there were greater understanding that anger never helps to solve a problem.
Leading your life honestly and truthfully will create trust and friendship.
Now we're so interdependent, we need to build trust and confidence. On a national or personal level self-centredness is a source of trouble.
You can't help someone just by making a wish to do so, you have to take action.
We need a sense of belonging to one humanity, respecting the rights and views of others.
If you dedicate yourself to helping others, you'll be happier.
We can only transform humanity and create a happier more compassionate world through education.
Today, let us wish each other a Happy New Year, but also that we may make it meaningful.
No matter what our motivation may be, if we are not realistic we will not fulfil our goal.
In order to exercise creativity, freedom of thought is essential.
We cannot change the past, but we can reshape the future. Young people have the opportunity to create a happier, better future
All beings want to live in peace and happiness, undisturbed. Therefore the concept of human rights is universal.
Anger and hatred lead to fear; compassion and concern for others allow us to develop self-confidence, which breeds trust and friendship.
It's harmful to employ technology fired by anger and hatred. It can only be beneficial if we're motivated to seek the welfare of all beings.
Sometimes things go wrong; that's normal. But we have a saying in Tibetan, 'Nine times fail, nine times try again'.
Because of the risks involved in indulging in unrestrained desire and greed we need to cultivate contentment and simplicity.
I believe compassion to be one of the few things we can practice that will bring immediate and long-term happiness to our lives.
Not only is your own happiness and welfare related to others, but the more you help them, the happier you will be.
I try to treat whoever I meet as an old friend. This gives me a genuine feeling of happiness.
Since we are increasingly interdependent it's time to develop a sense of global responsibility, to help each other and promote human values.
Great changes start with individuals; the basis of world peace is inner peace in the hearts of individuals, something we can all work for.
If we have a good heart and concern for others, our actions will be positive.
The challenge today is to convince people of the value of truth, honesty, compassion and a concern for others.
Love and compassion are qualities that human beings require just to live together.
We need values based on common sense, experience and scientific findings, what I refer to as secular ethics.
If you want change, create the causes.
Having a compassionate attitude is the ultimate basis for living a happy life.
Prayer can be of great solace to the individual, but changing the world requires us to take action.
If we make a common attempt to improve our education systems, we can educate the coming generations to be more compassionate.
As human beings, we have a common responsibility to build a more peaceful society.
The opponent of peace of mind is not something external, but within us.
Use your human intelligence in the best way you can; transform your emotions in a positive way.
Fear that makes us run from a mad dog is useful and necessary, whereas fear rooted in mistrust is unhelpful and needs to be overcome.
In order to derive the maximum benefit the wise thing is to take care of others.
Forgiveness is how we put a stop to anger, ill-will and a desire for revenge.
If we have peace of mind, we'll always feel happy. Deceiving ourselves that money is the source of happiness, we won't.
I'm optimistic that there is a growing appetite for peace in the world. Many young people are fed up with war and violence.
Warm-heartedness is the key factor that allows me to smile and be happy, even in the company of strangers.
Blessings don't come from outside, but from within. Whatever blessings we receive are the result of our own efforts and positive actions.
Anger destroys our peace of mind and causes trouble. It also hampers our ability to function properly.
Wherever I go I talk to people about the need to be aware of the oneness of humanity.
Compassion is what makes our lives meaningful.
Instead of harboring fear and suspicion we need to think of other people not as 'them' but 'us'.
It is important to let people know that they have the source of contentment and happiness within themselves.
Peace can only be achieved through non-violence. This is something we have to train and educate our children to put into effect.
A person who practices compassion and forgiveness has great inner strength, whereas aggression is usually a sign of weakness.
Among human beings trust comes about, not from expressions of wealth or fame, but from our showing affection.
When you concern yourself with others, you naturally develop a sense of self-confidence. To help others takes courage and inner strength.
Despite the superficial differences between us, we need to have a sense that all 7 billion human beings belong to one human family.
What we do need to do is to find ways to incorporate advice about warm-heartedness into our education system.
When we develop care and concern by thinking of others not as 'them' but 'us', there is no room for bullying, exploitation or deceit.
Genuine peace is based on inner peace, because you cannot build peace on the basis of anger.
We naturally have self-interest but it should be wise rather than foolish self-interest by taking others needs into account as well as ours.
If we make consistent effort, based on proper education, we can change the world.
Everybody wants a happy life and a peaceful mind, but we have to produce peace of mind through our own practice.
Just as ripples spread out when a single pebble is dropped into water, the actions of individuals can have far-reaching effects.
Serving and helping others out of compassion is non-violence in action.
Concern for others' well being reduces fear and suspicion, prompting the openness and transparency that gives rise to trust and friendship.
We live in a world in which we are dependent on others; we cannot expect to fulfil our goals while disregarding others' needs.
When you are warm-hearted, there is no room for anger, jealousy or insecurity.
Past history clearly shows that violence cannot solve problems.
A great Tibetan teacher of mind training once remarked that one of the mind's most marvelous qualities is that it can be transformed.
Genuine happiness comes from focusing on the happiness of others.
Once you have a genuine sense of concern for others, there's no room for cheating, bullying or exploitation.
Peace isn't the mere absence of violence; peace must come from inner peace. And inner peace comes from taking others' interests into account
Warm-heartedness and concern for others are a part of human nature and are at the core of positive human values.
A happy society must be created by people themselves, not through prayer alone, but by taking action.
I like to point out that our nature is basically compassionate because we are social animals. What brings us together is love and affection.
We need to understand that material development by itself it doesn't bring peace of mind. This can only be developed within the mind.
Who is there among us who does not prefer tolerance, respect and forgiveness of our failings to bigotry, disrespect, and resentment?
Through constant training we can enhance our positive attitudes and thoughts and reduce their opposing negative attitudes.
A genuine change must first come from within the individual, only then can he or she attempt to make a significant contribution to humanity.
Today's children are hugely important, our hopes for the future lie in their hands and rest on their shoulders.
I am increasingly convinced that the time has come to find a way of thinking about spirituality and ethics beyond religion altogether.
The many factors which divide us are actually much more superficial than those we share.
Genuine friendship depends on genuine affection and taking a sense of responsibility for each other.
Human values like democracy, freedom of speech and freedom of the individual, these are changes whose momentum cannot be stopped.
The quality of everything we do: our physical actions, our verbal actions, and even our mental actions, depends on our motivation.
Unlike the body, when it comes to training the mind, there is no limit to how far we can go.
Patience guards us against losing our presence of mind so we can remain undisturbed, even when the situation is really difficult.
If you become more concerned for the welfare of others, you will experience a sense of calm, inner strength and self-confidence.
If we are optimistic, take a longer view, and we employ realistic methods, we can contribute to making the world a better place.
Unbiased love is undoubtedly difficult to generate, but if you practice
with determination, day by day your attitude will be transformed.
Compassion is a mental quality that can bring us true lasting inner peace and inner strength.
We often talk about moral values, justice and trust, but the important thing is to put them into effect in our everyday lives.
Wealth may contribute to our happiness, but it's not the most important factor; by itself wealth fails to bring us deep inner satisfaction.
The more adept we are in cultivating altruism, the happier we will be and the better the atmosphere we will create around us.
Compassion is a marvel of human nature, a precious inner resource, and the foundation of our well-being and the harmony of our societies.
We have to put effort into being honest, truthful and compassionate towards others.
The essence of compassion is a desire to alleviate the suffering of others and to promote their well-being.
While revenge weakens society, forgiveness gives it strength.
A calm mind is really helpful in sustaining a healthy body.
To bring about a better world, let us all strive together with vision, with courage, and with optimism.
The creation of a more peaceful and happier society has to begin from the level of the individual.
It is my hope that the twenty-first century will be a century when a more caring, responsible, and compassionate humanity will emerge.
The real source of happiness involves one's state of mind, outlook, and motivation, and one's level of warmheartedness towards others.
Compassion, along with love, is the face of altruism.
We must work together. Humanity needs more genuine cooperation.
We tend to forget that despite the superficial differences between us, people are equal in their basic wish for peace and happiness.
It is necessary to help others in our daily lives, merely praying for them isn't enough.
Compassion is the wish to offer unbiased service to all beings, whether they are friendly or hostile to you.
As compassion grows stronger, so does your commitment to the welfare of all beings, even if you have to act alone.
Affection, honesty, harmony and non-violence are qualities that yield happiness for individuals, families and society at large.
Once your mind is calm and full of love, there is no room for hatred or fear. Others will trust you because of your open heart. 
We won't bring about peace in the world merely by praying for it; we have to take steps to tackle the violence and corruption that disrupt peace. We can't expect change if we don't take action.
The first drawback of anger is that it destroys our inner peace; the second is that it distorts our view of reality. If we think about this and come to understand that anger is really unhelpful, that it is only destructive, we can begin to distance ourselves from anger.
The creation of a more peaceful and happier society has to begin from the level of the individual, and from there it can expand to one's family, to one's neighborhood, to one's community and so on.
In the present circumstances, no one can afford to assume that someone else will solve their problems. Each one of us has a responsibility to help guide our global family in the right direction. Good wishes are not sufficient; we must become actively engaged.
A sense of contentment is crucial to being happy. Physical health, material wealth and friends contribute to this, but contentment governs our relations with them all.
In our modern society everything seems geared to material development, even our systems of education. As a result we no longer pay sufficient attention to our inner values, which leads to mental unrest. In order to address this imbalance we need to pay more attention to our minds
If we were really to see one another as brothers and sisters, there would be no basis for division, cheating and exploitation among us. Therefore it's important to promote the idea of the oneness of humanity, that in being human we are all the same.
The first of my personal commitments is to work to increase human happiness by encouraging the cultivation of inner values and a sense of concern for others' well being. These are the key factors whether one is a religious person or not.
Since we desire the true happiness that is brought about by a calm mind, and such peace of mind arises only from having a compassionate attitude, we need to make a concerted effort to develop compassion.
As a human being I'm aware that we are all physically, mentally and emotionally the same and we all want to live a happy life. Scientists say our basic nature is compassionate. It's clear that love and affection bring people together.
Irrespective of whether we have faith in religion or not, it's good to be more compassionate. It makes us happier as individuals with a positive influence on our families and the neighborhood where we live.
I am one of the 7 billion human beings alive today. We each have a responsibility to think about humanity and the good of the world because it affects our own future. We weren't born on this planet at this time to create problems but to bring about some benefit.
We can achieve peace of mind if we tackle our destructive emotions, so the goal of making the 21st century an era of peace and compassion is feasible. It will involve finding solutions to problems in dialogue, not the use of force.
We may say prayers when we are trying to solve the problems we face, but it is up to us to put an end to violence and bring about peace. Creating peace is our responsibility. To pray for peace while still engaging in the causes that give rise to violence is contradictory.
Human beings are social animals and it is love that brings us together, while anger drives us apart. To live more peacefully and joyfully in our day to day lives, we need a warm heart.
Making others happy is not a question of sacrificing our own happiness. Trying to make others happy, even when we do not always succeed, is a source of great satisfaction. Anger and hatred are signs of weakness, while compassion is a sure sign of strength.
Many of the problems we face today are our own creation. Creating a more peaceful world requires a peaceful mind and a peaceful heart. As human brothers and sisters we must live together in tolerance and affection.
As human beings we need to assess whether anger has any value - it destroys our peace of mind. Compassion, on the other hand, brings optimism and hope.
The kind of behavior that really is spiritual practice consists of refraining from falsehood and abiding by the truth, neither humiliating nor mocking others, being humble, and having a good heart and helping others.
When our intentions toward others are good, we find that any feelings of anxiety or insecurity we may have are greatly reduced. We experience a liberation from our habitual preoccupation with self and paradoxically, this gives rise to strong feelings of confidence.
Inner transformation is not a matter of faith or prayer. It involves reason and the use of human intelligence. A calm and healthy mind has a very positive effect on our physical health and well-being.
Ethics are not a collection of commandments and prohibitions to abide by, but a natural inner offering that can bring happiness and satisfaction to ourselves and others.
Virtually all of us have benefited from our mother's affection at the start of our lives. When someone is on their deathbed, if he or she is surrounded by loved ones they can pass away peacefully. From birth to death we all need affection.
While many people consider sensory experience as the main source of happiness, really it is peace of mind. What destroys peace of mind is anger, hatred, anxiety and fear. Kindness counters this, and through appropriate education we can learn to tackle such emotions.
Cultivating a close, warm-hearted feeling for others automatically puts the mind at ease. It helps remove whatever fears or insecurities we may have and gives us the strength to cope with any obstacles we encounter. It is the ultimate source of success in life.
I am one of the 7 billion human beings alive today. We each have a responsibility to think about humanity and the good of the world because it affects our own future. We weren't born on this planet at this time to create problems but to bring about some benefit.
If you develop a pure and sincere motivation, if you are motivated by a wish to help on the basis of kindness, compassion, and respect, then you can carry on any kind of work, in any field, and function more effectively.
Prayer by itself is not sufficient to bring about peace of mind. What is much more effective is coming to understand the workings of the mind and learning how to tackle the mental afflictions that disturb it.
I always consider that the shape of the future is in our hands. The past is past and can't be changed, but the future has not yet arrived. Young people have the opportunity and responsibility to shape it by creating a better world.
We may say prayers when we are trying to solve the problems we face, but it is up to us to put an end to violence and bring about peace. Creating peace is our responsibility. To pray for peace while still engaging in the causes that give rise to violence is contradictory.
In today's interconnected and globalized world, it's now commonplace for people of different world views, faiths and races to live side by side. It's a matter of great urgency, therefore, that we find ways to cooperate with one another in a spirit of mutual acceptance and respect
The world belongs to its 7 billion inhabitants. In the past, communities could flourish in isolation, but now we can't. This World Environment Day let's remember that we depend on each other and that to meet the challenge of climate change, we have to work together.
Some people consider the practice of love and compassion is only related to religious practice and if they are not interested in religion they neglect these inner values. But love and compassion are qualities that human beings require just to live together.
Because of our intelligence we human beings are uniquely capable not only of creating problems, but of doing so on a large scale. Therefore, it is important that we use our intelligence in constructive ways. That's what warm-heartedness and concern for others lead us to do.
Everyone wants to lead a peaceful, happy life, but happiness and success aren't measured by how much money you have, but by whether you have inner peace in your heart.
I'm Tibetan, I'm Buddhist and I'm the Dalai Lama, but if I emphasize these differences it sets me apart and raises barriers with other people. What we need to do is to pay more attention to the ways in which we are the same as other people.
People inflict pain on others in their selfish pursuit of happiness and satisfaction. Yet true happiness comes from a sense of brotherhood and sisterhood. We need to cultivate a sense of universal responsibility for one another and the planet we share.
Compassion is of little value if it just remains an idea. It must motivate how we respond to others and be reflected in all our thoughts and actions.
We are, you might say, "brainwashed" into thinking that money is the source of happiness while what we really need to know is that inner peace is something that comes from within.
I often ask myself what is the purpose of our lives and I conclude that life's purpose is to be happy. We have no guarantee what will happen in the future, but we live in hope. That's what keeps us going.
Scientists warn that constant fear and anger are bad for our health, while being compassionate and warm-hearted contributes to our physical and mental well-being. Therefore, just as we observe physical hygiene to stay well, we need to cultivate a kind of emotional hygiene too.
There is a link between our physical and verbal actions and emotions. If, instead of anger, hatred and suspicion, we are moved by loving-kindness, we will naturally have greater respect for others and our actions will be non-violent.
There are always problems to face, but it makes a difference if our minds are calm. On the surface we may get upset, but it makes a difference if we are able to stay calm in the depths of our minds.
Humanity's thirst for natural resources can only be sustained if we adapt our patterns of consumption. Competition for necessities like water, food and land will inevitably intensify. To meet the challenge of climate change and environmental depletion we must all cooperate.
Not only is it the case that happy people are more willing to help others, but as I generally point out, helping others is the best way to help yourself, the best way to promote your own happiness. It is you, yourself, who will receive the benefit.
Compassion reduces our fear, boosts our confidence, and opens us to inner strength. By reducing distrust, it opens us to others and brings us a sense of connections with them and a sense of purpose and meaning in life.
I feel that it's crucial to have a clear recognition of the value of your objective. That's the important thing. Recognizing that your objective is worthy, because it involves others' welfare or the general well-being of the community, gives you the determination to pursue it.
In the modern world, where the pursuit of money is considered more important than the cultivation of inner values a fresh approach is required to incorporate secular ethics or universal values into the system of education.
Our real enemies and the enemies of humanity are negative emotions like anger and hatred. Indeed, people who are dominated by powerful negative emotions should be objects of our compassion.
Change in the world comes from individuals, from the inner peace in individual hearts. Just as ripples spread out when a single pebble is dropped into water, the actions of individuals can have far-reaching effects.
In our day to day life warm-heartedness is the key factor for happiness.
World peace can only be based on inner peace. If we ask what destroys our inner peace, it's not weapons and external threats, but our own inner flaws like anger. This is one of the reasons why love and compassion are important, because they strengthen us. This is a source of hope
The many factors which divide us are actually much more superficial than those we share. Despite all of the things that differentiate us - race, language, religion, gender, wealth and so on - we are all equal concerning our fundamental humanity.
When each of us learns to appreciate the critical importance of ethics and makes inner values like compassion and patience an integral part of our basic outlook on life, the effects will be far-reaching.
In today's materialistic world there is a risk of people becoming slaves to money, as though they were simply cogs in a huge money-making machine. This does nothing for human dignity, freedom, and genuine well-being. Wealth should serve humanity, and not the other way around.
Peace has a great deal to do with warm-heartedness and respect for the lives of others, avoiding doing them harm and regarding their lives as being as precious as our own. If, on that basis, we can also be of help to others, so much the better.
Insofar as the destructive effects of anger and hateful thoughts are concerned, one cannot get protection from wealth nor education. The only factor that can give protection from the destructive effects of anger and hatred is the practice of tolerance and patience.
Because of the great differences in our ways of thinking, it is inevitable that we have different religions and faiths. Each has its own beauty. And it is much better that we live together on the basis of mutual respect and mutual admiration.
Practicing compassion, caring for others and sharing their problems, lays the foundation for a meaningful life, not only at the level of the individual, family or community, but also for humanity as a whole.
The very purpose of spirituality is self-discipline. Rather than criticizing others, we should evaluate and criticize ourselves. Ask yourself, what am I doing about my anger, my attachment, my pride, my jealousy? These are the things we should check in our day to day lives.
Genuine friends, are attracted by a warm heart, not money, not power. A genuine friend considers you as just another human being, as a brother or sister, and shows affection on that level, regardless of whether you are rich or poor, or in a high position; that is a genuine friend
Compassion suits our physical condition, whereas anger, fear and distrust are harmful to our well-being. Therefore, just as we learn the importance of physical hygiene to physical health, to ensure healthy minds, we need to learn some kind of emotional hygiene.
Although I am a Buddhist monk, I am skeptical that prayers alone will achieve world peace. We need instead to be enthusiastic and self-confident in taking action.
I believe the ultimate source of blessings is within us. A good motivation and honesty bring self-confidence, which attracts the trust and respect of others. Therefore the real source of blessings is in our own mind.
The basic foundation of humanity is compassion and love. This is why, if even a few individuals simply try to create mental peace and happiness within themselves and act responsibly and kind-heartedly towards others, they will have a positive influence in their community.
Many people think that patience is a sign of weakness. I think this is a mistake. It is anger that is a sign of weakness, whereas patience is a sign of strength.
Developing inner values is much like physical exercise. The more we train our abilities, the stronger they become. The difference is that, unlike the body, when it comes to training the mind, there is no limit to how far we can go.
What's past is past, nothing can change that. But the future can be different if we choose to make it so. We have to cultivate a vision of a happier, more peaceful future and make the effort now to bring it about. This is no time for complacency, hope lies in the action we take.
Destructive thoughts and emotions undermine the very causes of peace and happiness. If you think clearly about it, it makes no sense to think you're seeking happiness, if you do nothing to restrain angry, spiteful, and malicious thoughts and emotions.
Modern education pays little attention to inner values and yet our basic human nature is compassionate. We need to incorporate compassion and warm-heartedness into the modern education system to make it more holistic.
I really feel that some people neglect and overlook compassion because they associate it with religion. Of course, everyone is free to choose whether they pay religion any regard, but to neglect compassion is a mistake because it is the source of our own well-being.
Whether science or religion is constructive or destructive depends on our motivation and whether we are guided by a real concern for the well-being of others and an appreciation of the oneness of humanity.
I am convinced we can become happier individuals, happier communities and a happier humanity by cultivating a warm heart, allowing our better selves to prevail.
Karma means action and action motivated by compassion is good. To complain that what happens to you is just the result of your karma is lazy. Instead, confidently recalling the advice that, "You are your own master," you can change what happens by taking action.
Within each of us exists the potential to contribute positively to society. Although one individual among so many on this planet may seem too insignificant, it is our personal efforts that will determine the direction our society is heading.
We need to strengthen such inner values as contentment, patience and tolerance, as well as compassion for others. Keeping in mind that it is expressions of affection rather than money and power that attract real friends, compassion is the key to ensuring our own well-being.
I consider non-violence to be compassion in action. It doesn't mean weakness, cowering in fear, or simply doing nothing. It is to act without violence, motivated by compassion, recognizing the rights of others.
Meditation is about keeping the mind clear; thinking deeply about reality. It's about thinking about our emotions, asking ourselves 'Why do I feel angry?' and coming to understand the advantages and sound basis of positive emotions like warm-heartedness.
Peace in the world depends on peace within. If we have that we can approach problems in a spirit of compassion, dialogue and respect for the rights of others, always a better solution than resorting to a use of weapons and force. External disarmament depends on inner disarmament.
Peace is not brought about through conflict, but through compassion, creating peace of mind within ourselves. We all need compassion and women can take a lead role in encouraging others to let it flower within them. My own first teacher of kindness and compassion was my mother.
Some people mistakenly conclude that cultivating compassion is all about others' benefit, whereas the first benefit is to us. Compassion brings us peace of mind. It attracts friends. Friends are based on trust and trust develops when we show concern for others.
What is important is not so much how long you live as whether you live a meaningful life. This doesn't mean accumulating money and fame, but being of service to your fellow human beings. It means helping others if you can, but even if you can't do that, at least not harming them.
We can change our minds. We don't have to give in to anger and hatred. Since compassion and anger cannot co-exist, the more we cultivate compassion the more our anger will be reduced.
I don't like formality. There's no formality when we're born and none when we die. In between we should treat each other as brothers and sisters because we all want to live a happy life. This is our common purpose and our right.
Anger and aggression sometimes seem to be protective because they bring energy to bear on a particular situation, but that energy is blind. It takes a calm mind to be able to consider things from different angles and points of view.
The use of force may control people physically, but it won't change their hearts and minds. You can only do that on the basis of trust and friendship.
Change in the world always begins with an individual who shares what he or she has learned and passes it on to others.
The most crucial use of knowledge and education is to understand the importance of developing a good heart.
We all want to live a happy life, which is our right, and the key to doing so is developing compassion for others.
We need to improve the current education system by introducing instructions on ways to cultivate positive emotions like warm-heartedness.
Compassion brings inner peace and whatever else is going on, that peace of mind allows us to see the whole picture more clearly.
Compassion is the essence of a spiritual life, to be successful in practicing love and compassion, patience and tolerance are indispensable.
I'm convinced that today's young people can achieve a more peaceful world if they cultivate warm-heartedness and inner peace.
The more compassionate our mind, the more we'll be able to lead our lives transparently, honestly, truthfully, with nothing to hide.
People go to great lengths to look physically attractive, but inner beauty is a more important and stronger basis for lasting relationships.
As social animals we need friends and what attracts them is trust. And trust grows when we show real concern for others' well-being.
Peace doesn't come from prayer alone, it requires us to take action. Our goal should be a demilitarized world. #PeaceDayChallenge
Whatever our religious faith, showing others loving kindness is the best way to bring about inner peace.
What we need today are universal values based not on faith but on scientific findings, common experience and common sense.
I'm just one human being, but I believe each one of us has a responsibility to contribute to a happier humanity.
Religious people pray for peace, but prayer alone is not enough, what will bring peace in the world is people cultivating peace of mind.
As a human brother I'm committed to letting people know that we all possess the seeds of love and compassion.
Using harsh words reflects narrow-mindedness, to be happy and joyful we need friends. Friendship is based on trust and treating others kindly
Just as we protect our health by observing physical hygiene, by tackling our destructive emotions with skill we'll achieve emotional hygiene
You may control people physically by force, but you won't change their hearts and minds, that requires trust and friendship.
By learning to be more warm-hearted we can create a more compassionate world.
When I heard scientists say they had evidence that basic human nature is compassionate, I thought, 'There's real hope.'
Inner beauty, warm-heartedness and compassion, is what brings about peace of mind.
Fear and suspicion won't help us live together. We have to cultivate warm-heartedness.
If we were really to see one another as brothers and sisters, there would be no basis for division, cheating and exploitation among us.
We all want to live a happy life, so we have to learn to live together in trust and mutual respect.
If you have a warm heart and you care for others you'll be happy and the community in which you live will be happier too.
Education today needs not only to develop our intelligence, but also to support basic human values of warm-heartedness and compassion.
There is no fortitude like patience, just as there is no destructive emotion worse than hatred. Therefore, practice patience and tolerance.
Since loving kindness is the basis of a happy life, It's my number one commitment to promote awareness of the importance of warm-heartedness
We experience happiness on a sensory level that is relatively short-lived. But lasting happiness is related to our state of mind.
Compassion brings us peace of mind. It brings a smile to our face and genuine smiles bring us closer together.
On a mental level kindness and compassion give rise to lasting joy. They reduce fear.
A more peaceful world and a more peaceful century require that we rely not on weapons but on developing a widespread inner peace.
We are all social animals and compassion, care and concern for others bring us together.
Having a calm and compassionate mind enables us to use our natural intelligence more effectively.
Protecting our environment is not a luxury we can choose to enjoy, but a simple matter of survival.
Peace in the world depends on our relating to each other with compassion.
Although bringing about inner change is difficult, it is absolutely worthwhile to try. What is important is to try our best.
Motivation is very important. We can show love, respect for others, and honesty in whatever we do to help humanity.
If human society loses the value of justice, compassion, and honesty, the next generation will face greater difficulties and more suffering.
The happiness of childhood, the calming of a child's fears and the healthy development of its self-confidence depend directly upon love.
Money and power attract friends. But it's not you they're friends with , just your money and power. Only affection brings genuine friends.
If in day to day life you lead a good life, honestly, with love, compassion, and less selfishness, then automatically you will find peace.
The future can be different if we choose to make it so. There is no time for complacency, hope lies in what action we take.
Anger may seem to be a source of energy, but it's blind. It causes us to lose our restraint. It may stir courage, but that too is blind.
It is in the nature of the mind that the more we cultivate and familiarize ourselves with positive emotions, the more powerful they become.
This Earth Day we need a greater sense of global responsibility based on our belonging to one human family.
While material development contributes to physical comfort, mental comfort depends on compassion, which expresses itself as nonviolence.
It is not enough simply to wish that love and compassion grow within us. We need a sustained effort to cultivate such positive qualities.
The aim of spiritual practice is to transform and perfect our motivation and mental disposition, so we can become better human beings.
Positive emotions like compassion and loving kindness engender in us a deep sense of peace and serenity, and benefits others as well.
We can make this a more peaceful century if we cherish non-violence and concern for others' well-being.
Some scientists have found evidence to show that basic human nature is compassionate. This is a really hopeful sign.
All religions have the potential to create better human beings, but no one religion can claim supremacy over the other.
To really be of help to others we need to be guided by compassion.
Caring for others is the best way to fulfil our own interests. We are social animals; we need to be warm-hearted and to take care of others.
Love and compassion are important, because they strengthen us. This is a source of hope
We have to cultivate a vision of a happier, more peaceful future and make the effort now to bring it about.
The purpose of education is to build a happier society, we need a more holistic approach that promotes the practice of love and compassion.
It's not what work we choose to do, the crucial point is doing it with a positive and altruistic motivation.
Be a kind and compassionate person. This is the inner beauty that is a key factor to making a better world.
Inner peace helps sustain good health, gives rise to happy individuals, happy families, happy communities and ultimately a happy humanity.
Be honest, truthful and warm-hearted. Make compassion the basis of your determination.
If our goal is a happier, more peaceful world in the future, only education will bring change.
The ultimate source of happiness for self and others is compassion, concern for others and being of service to them.
We know that everyone who is born has to die, but the important thing is that while we are alive we should make our lives meaningful.
If there can be a greater sense of oneness in the world, then violence and killing will end.
When we talk about happiness, we must think in terms of peace of mind, which is a real source of joy.
When you have a more compassionate mind and cultivate warmheartedness, the whole atmosphere around you becomes more positive and friendlier.
On this International Day of Peace, we must remember that peace cannot come from prayer alone. It requires action. #PeaceDayChallenge
The quality of every human activity ultimately depends on our motivation.
Change starts with us as individuals. If one individual becomes more compassionate it will influence others and so we will change the world.
Genuine compassion, unbiased and not mixed with attachment, is a source of genuine human happiness.
Meaningful dialogue requires us to respect others' rights and interests, compromise is the only way to resolve disputes.
Friendship depends on trust, not money, not power, not education. Only if there's trust will there be friendship.
Different religious traditions can live together on the basis of mutual admiration, mutual respect, and learning from each other.
We are all human beings possessing a seed of compassion. We have to use our intelligence to cultivate the inner values associated with it.
Whether we believe in religion or not, affection and compassion are key factors for our peace of mind.
We think that if we have health and wealth they're enough to be happy, but actually happiness depends on the state of our minds.
Problems created by human beings have to be solved by human beings. Basic human nature is compassionate and this is our source of hope.
If you show concern for others and respect for their rights you will establish trust; and trust is the basis of friendship.
We may sometimes feel that we can't do much as individuals, but humanity is made up of individuals; we can make a difference.
We are now so interdependent that it is in our own interest to take the whole of humanity into account.
We need to pay more attention to the inner values that are the key to our happiness.
Genuine peace in the world depends on our having peace in our hearts. If we are full of anger how can we expect to bring about peace.
There are always problems to face, but it makes a difference if our minds are calm.
Friendship depends on trust and trust grows when we live our lives honestly and sincerely, cultivating respect and concern for others.
If we start now and make the effort, we can make the world a more peaceful place. We have to try.
Being concerned about others does not mean you forgo fulfilling your own needs, but that if you do help others there is mutual benefit.
Problems created by human beings have to be solved by human beings. Basic human nature is compassionate and this is our source of hope.
Inner peace depends on warm-heartedness and a concern for others' well being.
Building trust depends on concern for others and defending their rights, not doing them harm.
If we remember the oneness of humanity and think of each other as brothers and sisters we can overcome that potential for violence.
This planet is our only home; we are all responsible for taking care of it. I'm happy to see leaders now taking climate change seriously.
The time has come for us to consider seriously how to change our way of life not through prayer or religious teaching, but through education
Because society is the basis of our own happiness, it makes sense for us to take care of others.
Creating a better world will require will-power, vision and determination. And for that we need a strong sense that humanity is one family.
The distinction between violence and non-violence lies less in the nature of the action and more in the motivation with which it is done.
Physical comfort alone does not bring inner peace. We create inner peace within the mind.
We need friendship, which depends on trust. And that depends on concern for others, defending their rights, and not doing them harm.
Whether technology's effect is good or bad depends on the user. It's important that we shouldn't be slaves to technology; it should help us.
Cultivating warm-heartedness and compassion is something we can all do.
Just as cold is dispelled by heat, its opposite, anger and loving-kindness counter one another.
Open hearts encourage a sense of security and trust that is the basis of genuine friendship, which is to everyone's benefit.
We will only create a more peaceful and harmonious world if we adopt a peaceful approach and engage openly in dialogue.
Love and affection are important if we are to live a happy life.
What is important today is that we consciously cultivate a sense of the oneness of humanity, because we all depend on each other.
Friendship doesn't depend on fame, money or physical strength. It's based on trust and trust depends on love and affection.
If you live your life honestly and truthfully, you'll be open and transparent, which leads to trust. And trust leads to friendship.
We have to make a special effort to think of each other as fellow human beings, as our brothers and sisters.
We have a marvelous brain, but have to use it properly. It's scientific to be skeptical, to research and experiment. An approach I admire.
When you help others, do so out of respect. Don't look down on them. Serve other human beings with a compassionate intent.
Climate change affects everyone, all nations, not just one or two. Consider it a global issue; national interests will automatically be met.
This planet is our home and Tibet its roof.  
When faced with problems, don't lose hope. Keep up your self-confidence and don't be too impatient to achieve quick results.
We need to promote the oneness of all human beings, on the basis of which there are no grounds for killing or exploiting others.
It is possible to use our intelligence and extend our compassion to others, including even our enemies.
Tibet's ecology needs protecting, not just for Tibetans, but for the health and sustainability of the entire world
Fundamentally, all spiritual traditions help us train our minds, overcome our negativities and fulfill our inner potential.
The future is in your hands, but for it to be peaceful and happy requires a sense of compassion and concern for others' well-being.
Many think that happiness is to be found outside ourselves in material things, but actually happiness is something that comes from within.
Changing the world is up to us. If each of us tries, the next generation may see a happier, more peaceful world emerge.
Let's remember that world peace results from individuals like us finding lasting peace within #PeaceDayChallenge
To serve others and not only to secure their welfare, but also to avoid harming them, is the standard of a meaningful life.
As human beings, equipped with marvelous intelligence and the potential for developing a warm heart, each of us can become a force for good
It's unrealistic to think that the future of humanity can be achieved through prayer or good wishes alone; what we need is to take action.
The goal of happier human beings living together, supporting each other, in a more peaceful world, is, I believe, something we can achieve.
Loving is of even greater importance than being loved.
The use of force and violence inevitably entails unanticipated consequences, but rarely yields a solution.
Compassion reduces our fear, boosts our confidence, and opens us to inner strength.
The moment you think of others, your mind widens.
Japan, the one country to have suffered nuclear attack, has taken the lead in opposing nuclear weapons. I strongly urge you to keep it up.
To create a happier humanity we have to pay more attention to our inner values, whether we are religious or not.
The real troublemaker is within us. Our true enemies are our own destructive tendencies.
To cultivate genuine compassion we need to take responsibility for our own care and have concern for everyone's suffering, including our own
If we're motivated by a genuine sense of universal responsibility our relations with the environment and our neighbors will be more balanced
What makes our human life precious is our marvelous brain. We have an ability to cultivate compassion in a way no other beings can do.
The greatest threat we face today is violence.
The gun may seem more decisive in the short term, but in the long term the power of truth is stronger.
When we wake up we can remind ourselves - "I need to be happy, I need to have warm feelings towards others."
We all want to be happy and avoid suffering, and we all have a right to be happy. That's why I say we are all the same.
To create a happier humanity we have to pay more attention to our inner values, whether we are religious or not.
A truthful, compassionate attitude is a sign of strength. It's lying and anger that betray weakness.
Since climate change and the global economy now affect us all, we have to develop a sense of the oneness of humanity.
We all have the potential to develop unbiased love and concern for other human beings.
To reduce destructive emotions we need to strengthen constructive emotions. For example, to counter anger we cultivate love and compassion.
It's important is to show children affection to give them a sense of security and the ability to be affectionate for the rest of their lives
Ask yourselves now and then, "How can I contribute to human beings being happier and more at peace?"
As human beings we are all responsible for each other; we all have the potential to be kind and affectionate.
When our mind is calm, we're better able to find peace of mind and live a joyful life.
Since we are not solely material creatures, it is a mistake to base all our hopes for happiness on external development alone.
Common sense tells us we'll be happy even if we're poor if we're warm-hearted, whereas if we're wealthy but self-centred we'll be miserable
Kindness and compassion give rise to self-confidence, which in turn empowers us to be honest, truthful and transparent.
Giving in to anger, fear and suspicion disturbs our minds and our physical well-being, whereas trust and friendship are the basis of society
Because all religious traditions teach love, tolerance and forgiveness, and share a common goal, we can appreciate and respect them all.
Deep down we must have a real affection for each other, a clear recognition of our shared status as human beings.
Doing to harm to others may bring some temporary satisfaction, but being helpful to them is the only real source of lasting joy.
Our potential for positive and negative emotions is the same, but intelligence is our special quality. Use it well; be successful and happy.
The future is in the hands of those who belong to the 21st century with the opportunity to build a better humanity by training the mind.
Friends are made on the basis of trust and trust only grows if you are kind to people.
It is important to teach young people at school that violence is a fruitless approach to solving problems.
It's clear that the ultimate source of happiness is warm-heartedness.
Anger cannot coexist with inner peace, which is the principal characteristic of happiness.
When our mind is calm, we're better able to find peace of mind and live a joyful life.
If we have respect and concern for other beings, we'll be able to create an atmosphere of happiness, harmony and real brotherhood
One of our best human qualities is intelligence; it enables us to judge what is beneficial and what brings harm.
In our daily lives, mindfulness, a more holistic and compassionate attitude helps us keep our peace of mind; it's good for our health too.
Compassion is not just the business of the religious; it is important to know it's everyone's business, it is a question of human survival.
We need to strike a balance between material and spiritual progress, a balance achieved on the basis of love and compassion.
Only tolerance and patience can protect us from the destructive effects of anger and hatred.
Everyone can practise non-violence, it only calls for determination. If you succeed, it will open the way to a far more peaceful world.
Affection and compassion are indispensable in daily life.
Idealistic as it may sound, altruism should be the driving force in business, not just competition and a desire for wealth.
True compassion isn't just an emotional response, it's a firm commitment founded on reason, which doesn't change if others behave badly.
Determination, courage, self-confidence lead to success, but we should always remain humble, modest and unpretentious.
Showing respect for others' rights and views is not only the source of reconciliation it's also an aspect of compassion.
Tolerance is always important, it helps us overcome difficulties. Without it, small things irritate us and we overreact.
Material development only gives us sensory pleasure, but to be lastingly happy we need to develop our minds. We need calm minds.
Being aware of a single shortcoming within yourself is far more useful than being aware of a thousand in someone else.
The purpose of religion is not building grand temples but cultivating positive human qualities like tolerance, generosity and love.
We can develop patience and change our attitudes through steady practice - the human mind has such potential.
Concern yourselves more with the needs of others, with the needs of all humanity, and you'll have peace of mind.
Compassion suits our physical condition, whereas anger, fear and distrust are harmful to our well-being.
True friendship develops not as a result of money or power but on the basis of genuine human affection.
If we were to think of other people as our human brothers and sisters, there'd be no room for quarrelling or killing each other.
You can't buy inner peace or wisdom with money. You have to create them within yourself.
Without technology humanity has no future, but we have to be careful that we don't become so mechanised that we lose our human feelings.
To meet this century's challenges, human beings need a greater sense of universal responsibility.
Compassion should be unbiased, based on a recognition that others have a right to happiness, just as you do.
Love and kindness are the very basis of society. If we lose these positive emotions, society will face tremendous difficulties.
Human rights apply to every country because all human beings share an inherent yearning for freedom, dignity and equality.
If you develop care and concern for others, you'll develop a kind of inner strength in spite of your own difficulties and problems.
We need to balance material and spiritual progress, acting with love and compassion can help achieve that balance.
I believe that human nature is fundamentally positive and gentle; therefore, a human approach should be non-violent.
If we do nothing to restrain our angry, spiteful, and malicious thoughts and emotions, happiness will elude us.
Even small acts of compassion bring meaning and purpose to our lives.
My number one commitment is to extend awareness that peace of mind depends on our cultivating inner values.
Affection, warm-heartedness, that makes us happy; wealth alone can't do that.
The value of compassion and forgiveness is not confined to matters of religion. These are human values that we shouldn't neglect.
Patience as we wait to take action is a kind of compassionate mind. Impatience on the other hand can be a source of failure.
A calm mind makes us relaxed, improves our health and makes for happier families and communities.
Affection, a sense of community and a sense of concern for others are not some kind of luxury. They're about the survival of humanity.
Cultivating a genuine sense of concern for others' well-being is the basis for the trust that makes happiness and friendship possible.
If you make others happy, you'll be happy. If you make others unhappy, you'll be miserable.
We are social animals and it is in our own interest, if we want to live a happy life, to think of the rest of humanity.
It's not just money we need to lead a happy life; more important is to find inner peace.
Compassion indicates strength, while anger is a sign of weakness and forgiveness is about not giving in to anger or thoughts of revenge.
If we want to improve humanity, we have to start with individuals.
Tackling destructive emotions like anger and hatred entails developing constructive emotions like love and compassion.
Our intelligence needs to be guided by warm-heartedness.
If you're angry and resentful it's like being part of a chain reaction; forgiveness puts a stop to anger, ill-will and a desire for revenge.
It is evident that to help others rather than harming them, treating them with love and compassion leads to lasting trust and friendship.
The idea of one side suffering defeat while the other side triumphs is out of date. Instead we have to develop dialogue.
In order to derive the maximum benefit the wise thing is take care of others.
Developing an attitude more concerned with others reduces fear and fosters friendship.
When we have an altruistic motivation, all our actions become constructive.
We need cooperation based on trust and self-confidence to create an open, compassionate, harmonious society.
There needs to be a systematic approach to introducing inner values, a warm-hearted concern for all human beings, into education.
Compassion is a source of happiness, while self-centerdness can lead ultimately to violence.
Warm-heartedness and concern for others' well-being are a condition for happiness, whether you are religious or not.
Non-violence is when one has the chance to harm another but resists from doing so, this is genuine non-violence.
The quality of our actions, whether they are positive or negative, depends on our motivation. This is why we have to transform our minds.
We need to consider how our actions affect wildlife and the environment, and how they are likely to affect others.
I often tease young people about their concern for how they look; more important is inner beauty - compassion, affection and respect.
Wherever I go I try to hold discussions with members of other religious traditions, because it is important to get to know about them.
The more we are concerned for the well-being of others, the closer we will feel to each other.
If we cherish non-violence and concern for others' well-being it is possible to make this a more peaceful century.
A meaningful life isn't about acquiring money and other facilities; it's about dedicating your life to helping others as much as you can.
As a human being, I believe each one of us should have some concern for others and for the planet.
It is always helpful to remain honest and truthful in the face of difficulty.
In addition to modern education, there is a need to learn how to achieve inner peace.
Pay more attention to compassion and you'll find you're happier. It's that practical and simple.
We need to see that anger is never any use in solving problems, but that patience and compassion are helpful.
If tragedy strikes, don't lose hope. Transform it into an opportunity to make things better.
When you are concerned for the welfare of others, bullying and exploitation cease.
We have to try to solve local problems keeping global interests in mind.
We can teach people how to be happy on the basis of secular ethics, that a compassionate mind is useful, beneficial and secular in nature.
The power of truth never declines. Force and violence may be effective in the short term, but in the long run it's truth that prevails.
Concern for others is not just a matter of religious practice; it's a practical step towards creating a happy society.
Even people opposed to religion need calm minds and compassion to make their work more effective.
We all need basic human values rooted in trust and affection.
Warm-heartedness gives rise to the self-confidence and inner strength that supports a calm mind.
Just as we teach about physical hygiene in the interest of good health, we now need to teach about mental or emotional hygiene too.
It is important to appreciate the contribution compassion and warm-heartedness make to happiness.
Everyone wants to lead a happy life, a meaningful life. In order to fulfil this goal our practice should be realistic.
When you face problems in your lives, don't resort to the use of force, try to employ dialogue to find a solution.
Whether we follow a religious path or not, as human beings we all need affection.
We must design education that provides for both knowledge and a healthy mind, creating a sense of compassion that responds to all humanity.
We have to build a better, more equal world through peace and non-violence.
It would help if there were greater understanding that anger never helps to solve a problem.
Leading your life honestly and truthfully will create trust and friendship.
Now we're so interdependent, we need to build trust and confidence. On a national or personal level self-centredness is a source of trouble.
You can't help someone just by making a wish to do so, you have to take action.
We need a sense of belonging to one humanity, respecting the rights and views of others.
If you dedicate yourself to helping others, you'll be happier.
We can only transform humanity and create a happier more compassionate world through education.
Today, let us wish each other a Happy New Year, but also that we may make it meaningful.
No matter what our motivation may be, if we are not realistic we will not fulfil our goal.
In order to exercise creativity, freedom of thought is essential.
We cannot change the past, but we can reshape the future. Young people have the opportunity to create a happier, better future
All beings want to live in peace and happiness, undisturbed. Therefore the concept of human rights is universal.
Anger and hatred lead to fear; compassion and concern for others allow us to develop self-confidence, which breeds trust and friendship.
It's harmful to employ technology fired by anger and hatred. It can only be beneficial if we're motivated to seek the welfare of all beings.
Sometimes things go wrong; that's normal. But we have a saying in Tibetan, 'Nine times fail, nine times try again'.
Because of the risks involved in indulging in unrestrained desire and greed we need to cultivate contentment and simplicity.
I believe compassion to be one of the few things we can practice that will bring immediate and long-term happiness to our lives.
Not only is your own happiness and welfare related to others, but the more you help them, the happier you will be.
I try to treat whoever I meet as an old friend. This gives me a genuine feeling of happiness.
Since we are increasingly interdependent it's time to develop a sense of global responsibility, to help each other and promote human values.
Great changes start with individuals; the basis of world peace is inner peace in the hearts of individuals, something we can all work for.
If we have a good heart and concern for others, our actions will be positive.
The challenge today is to convince people of the value of truth, honesty, compassion and a concern for others.
Love and compassion are qualities that human beings require just to live together.
We need values based on common sense, experience and scientific findings, what I refer to as secular ethics.
If you want change, create the causes.
Having a compassionate attitude is the ultimate basis for living a happy life.
Prayer can be of great solace to the individual, but changing the world requires us to take action.
If we make a common attempt to improve our education systems, we can educate the coming generations to be more compassionate.
As human beings, we have a common responsibility to build a more peaceful society.
The opponent of peace of mind is not something external, but within us.
Use your human intelligence in the best way you can; transform your emotions in a positive way.
Fear that makes us run from a mad dog is useful and necessary, whereas fear rooted in mistrust is unhelpful and needs to be overcome.
In order to derive the maximum benefit the wise thing is to take care of others.
Forgiveness is how we put a stop to anger, ill-will and a desire for revenge.
If we have peace of mind, we'll always feel happy. Deceiving ourselves that money is the source of happiness, we won't.
I'm optimistic that there is a growing appetite for peace in the world. Many young people are fed up with war and violence.
Warm-heartedness is the key factor that allows me to smile and be happy, even in the company of strangers.
Blessings don't come from outside, but from within. Whatever blessings we receive are the result of our own efforts and positive actions.
Anger destroys our peace of mind and causes trouble. It also hampers our ability to function properly.
Wherever I go I talk to people about the need to be aware of the oneness of humanity.
Compassion is what makes our lives meaningful.
Instead of harboring fear and suspicion we need to think of other people not as 'them' but 'us'.
It is important to let people know that they have the source of contentment and happiness within themselves.
Peace can only be achieved through non-violence. This is something we have to train and educate our children to put into effect.
A person who practices compassion and forgiveness has great inner strength, whereas aggression is usually a sign of weakness.
Among human beings trust comes about, not from expressions of wealth or fame, but from our showing affection.
When you concern yourself with others, you naturally develop a sense of self-confidence. To help others takes courage and inner strength.
Despite the superficial differences between us, we need to have a sense that all 7 billion human beings belong to one human family.
What we do need to do is to find ways to incorporate advice about warm-heartedness into our education system.
When we develop care and concern by thinking of others not as 'them' but 'us', there is no room for bullying, exploitation or deceit.
Genuine peace is based on inner peace, because you cannot build peace on the basis of anger.
We naturally have self-interest but it should be wise rather than foolish self-interest by taking others needs into account as well as ours.
If we make consistent effort, based on proper education, we can change the world.
Everybody wants a happy life and a peaceful mind, but we have to produce peace of mind through our own practice.
Just as ripples spread out when a single pebble is dropped into water, the actions of individuals can have far-reaching effects.
Serving and helping others out of compassion is non-violence in action.
Concern for others' well being reduces fear and suspicion, prompting the openness and transparency that gives rise to trust and friendship.
We live in a world in which we are dependent on others; we cannot expect to fulfil our goals while disregarding others' needs.
When you are warm-hearted, there is no room for anger, jealousy or insecurity.
Past history clearly shows that violence cannot solve problems.
A great Tibetan teacher of mind training once remarked that one of the mind's most marvelous qualities is that it can be transformed.
Genuine happiness comes from focusing on the happiness of others.
Once you have a genuine sense of concern for others, there's no room for cheating, bullying or exploitation.
Peace isn't the mere absence of violence; peace must come from inner peace. And inner peace comes from taking others' interests into account
Warm-heartedness and concern for others are a part of human nature and are at the core of positive human values.
A happy society must be created by people themselves, not through prayer alone, but by taking action.
I like to point out that our nature is basically compassionate because we are social animals. What brings us together is love and affection.
We need to understand that material development by itself it doesn't bring peace of mind. This can only be developed within the mind.
Who is there among us who does not prefer tolerance, respect and forgiveness of our failings to bigotry, disrespect, and resentment?
Through constant training we can enhance our positive attitudes and thoughts and reduce their opposing negative attitudes.
A genuine change must first come from within the individual, only then can he or she attempt to make a significant contribution to humanity.
Today's children are hugely important, our hopes for the future lie in their hands and rest on their shoulders.
I am increasingly convinced that the time has come to find a way of thinking about spirituality and ethics beyond religion altogether.
The many factors which divide us are actually much more superficial than those we share.
Genuine friendship depends on genuine affection and taking a sense of responsibility for each other.
Human values like democracy, freedom of speech and freedom of the individual, these are changes whose momentum cannot be stopped.
The quality of everything we do: our physical actions, our verbal actions, and even our mental actions, depends on our motivation.
Unlike the body, when it comes to training the mind, there is no limit to how far we can go.
Patience guards us against losing our presence of mind so we can remain undisturbed, even when the situation is really difficult.
If you become more concerned for the welfare of others, you will experience a sense of calm, inner strength and self-confidence.
If we are optimistic, take a longer view, and we employ realistic methods, we can contribute to making the world a better place.
Unbiased love is undoubtedly difficult to generate, but if you practice
with determination, day by day your attitude will be transformed.
Compassion is a mental quality that can bring us true lasting inner peace and inner strength.
We often talk about moral values, justice and trust, but the important thing is to put them into effect in our everyday lives.
Wealth may contribute to our happiness, but it's not the most important factor; by itself wealth fails to bring us deep inner satisfaction.
The more adept we are in cultivating altruism, the happier we will be and the better the atmosphere we will create around us.
Compassion is a marvel of human nature, a precious inner resource, and the foundation of our well-being and the harmony of our societies.
We have to put effort into being honest, truthful and compassionate towards others.
The essence of compassion is a desire to alleviate the suffering of others and to promote their well-being.
While revenge weakens society, forgiveness gives it strength.
A calm mind is really helpful in sustaining a healthy body.
To bring about a better world, let us all strive together with vision, with courage, and with optimism.
The creation of a more peaceful and happier society has to begin from the level of the individual.
It is my hope that the twenty-first century will be a century when a more caring, responsible, and compassionate humanity will emerge.
The real source of happiness involves one's state of mind, outlook, and motivation, and one's level of warmheartedness towards others.
Compassion, along with love, is the face of altruism.
We must work together. Humanity needs more genuine cooperation.
We tend to forget that despite the superficial differences between us, people are equal in their basic wish for peace and happiness.
It is necessary to help others in our daily lives, merely praying for them isn't enough.
Compassion is the wish to offer unbiased service to all beings, whether they are friendly or hostile to you.
As compassion grows stronger, so does your commitment to the welfare of all beings, even if you have to act alone.
Affection, honesty, harmony and non-violence are qualities that yield happiness for individuals, families and society at large.
Once your mind is calm and full of love, there is no room for hatred or fear. Others will trust you because of your open heart.